We're just sort of back to the narrative
[music]
really of the last 12 months.
>> There's so much complacency in the
market.
>> This can really overshoot to the upside.
>> It doesn't reduce market volatility. It
actually increases it.
>> Volatility is higher. We have to learn
to live with it.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
Good morning. Live from New York. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance. Traders
curbing their enthusiasm about the
ceasefire [music] agreement in the
Middle East. Futures dipping and oil
rising with ships still struggling to
get through the Strait of Hormuz.
>> [music]
>> Employment data, inflation data, all
coming up as investors examine the
conflict's economic consequences. The
bottom line, another day of being glued
to the headlines. Anne Marie, you're
back in the seat, which is a wonderful
thing. I mean, it feels like we're just
sort of looking for signals and trading
off headlines.
>> Well, it's because the rhetoric is
[music] not matching actually the facts
on the ground. So, the market has been
squarely focused on the opening or at
least the safe passage because [music]
the Iranians are actually controlling
the Strait of Hormuz. And even though
the White House said yesterday a number
of times as the press secretary is
briefing the press, they've [music] seen
an uptick. The facts are they haven't.
Our data says about maybe four vessels
[music] got through. Kepler to the New
York Times says zero. And today, Sultan
Al Jaber, the head of Adnoc, says open
the Strait unconditionally, no strings
attached. Let's be clear here, the
Strait of Hormuz is [music] not open.
>> As we play headline roulette, we try to
focus on exactly what could potentially
have longer term consequences. And we're
very lucky to have for the full hour Dan
Greenhouse of Solus Alternative Asset
Management, who hopefully can do that
for us. I mean, did you have a sense of
what we could do with this other than
just chase squirrels?
>> No, I mean, the last couple times I've
been on, I said for most investors,
[music] the best thing to do right now
is nothing.
Um, it's not too dissimilar to the
tariff story, but there's there's
meaningful downside risks, uh,
especially with an equity index that's
barely off the highs. But I
to Anne Marie, like the headlines are
coming so fast and furious here. I don't
think most people know what to do with
them. At this point, are we seeing
[music] any long-term conclusions that
maybe oil prices are higher, that
there's a more more of a risk premium
being baked into markets or is it just
otherwise pretty much inconclusive with
the whole thing?
>> I think most people would agree oil's
not going back to $60 anytime soon. Uh,
there's that. Exactly what happens with
the tolls. I mean, there's there's
again, there's downside risks here. But
other than oil meaningfully [music]
being higher than it was, I'm not sure
you can reach any conclusions as of yet.
And RBC put out a note today saying
above all, we think the mechanics of
reopening the Strait will be exceedingly
messy. If that holds true, then you're
going to be looking at higher for longer
and then at some point it'll start to
bleed through the rest of the economy in
a more sustainable way. [music] Yeah,
that was a fantastic note from Helima
Croft. I recommend people look at it.
Right now in markets, what you see is a
bit of a
[music]
reversal from what we saw yesterday. A
bit of a risk-off tone pretty much
across the board, although not [music]
necessarily retracing all of the gains.
S&P futures down 3/10 of a percent.
Nasdaq futures lower by 2/10 of a
percent. You could see Brent rising
[music] once again after yesterday
plunging the most since 2020, up 3.3% to
$97.88.
And 10-year yields just a little bit
lower. Yesterday was a strange day for
yields considering the fact that on one
hand, it was a risk-on a feeling of
maybe disinflation, but on [music] the
other hand, a pretty weak auction and
some questions about long-term
inflation. Coming up this hour, Keith
Lerner of Truist with stocks on track to
snap a 6-day winning streak, OECD Chief
Economist Stefano Scarpeta as the Iran
war weighs on the global economy and Kit
Jukes of SocGen on the risk of a policy
mistake by the Federal Reserve. We begin
this hour with our top story, a fragile
ceasefire in the Middle East.
Bloomberg's Joumanna Bercetche joins us
now from Dubai. Joumanna, you talked
yesterday about how there still were
strikes ongoing that were being
intercepted by Gulf
Mhm.
Yeah, the latest is things are actually
quieter today, Lisa. Uh, and I will say
it appears as though the ceasefire is
actually holding. As we said yesterday,
we were reporting throughout the day, it
got a little dicey. There were lots of
incoming projectiles still being fired
towards the UAE, Saudi Arabia.
Intercepted drone even above that
East-West pipeline, that crucial
pipeline in Saudi Arabia as well. But
uh, today things have quietened down.
But what I will say is the main front
that has opened up is the
Lebanon-Hezbollah front. And there
appears to be a disconnect here between
what Iran think was included in the
ceasefire deal versus what the White
House are also alleging on their side
and that Lebanon was never going to be
part of this regional ceasefire. And
what we saw yesterday was a series of
very heavy air strikes conducted by the
IDF. They say they hit
over a hundred different Hezbollah sites
in the space of 10 minutes. But it
caused a lot of damage to buildings. The
death count is more than 250 as we speak
right now. And it has actually provoked
an international community response.
Many European leaders, including the
likes of President Macron, saying that
Lebanon needs to be part of the broader
regional ceasefire arrangements. So, as
we head towards this weekend, it looks
as though those in-person negotiations
are going to happen in Islamabad. We
know that the US are sending their
delegation. Still unsure who from the
Iranian side will be there.
But number one, one of the main topics
of discussion is what happens with the
Lebanon front. And of course, the matter
of the straits. You look at the traffic
through the straits of Hormuz over the
last 24 hours, there hasn't been a
notable pickup. And effectively, Iran
are still monitoring who goes in.
They're still charging a fee. An
unacceptable outcome for Gulf Nations as
Anne Marie was just saying. The CEO of
Adnoc once again saying that they cannot
hold this much grip over such a key
waterway around the world. So, there's
still going to be a lot of pushback, I
think, and a lot of
a push diplomatically to ensure that the
Strait does fully reopen unconditionally
at the talks this weekend alongside all
of the other topics, including, you
know, the nuclear
stockpile, the enriched uranium
stockpile alongside Iran's funding of
proxies in the region, and their
ballistic weapons. So, there's still a
lot that needs to be bridged in the
coming days. Joumanna Bercetche, thank
you so much as always for that report
coming to us from Dubai. Here's a view
on Wall Street this morning. Keith
Lerner of Truist writing, "The market
remains highly headline driven, which
helps explain the sharp reaction to
recent news. The bull market still
deserves the benefit of the doubt."
Keith joins us now for more. Keith,
great to see you. Great to be here.
>> So, why does it still need to get the
benefit of the doubt given the fact that
there still are a lot of risks on the
table? Yeah, well, there's always risk
in the market. I would just say and
there's still risk. I mean, obviously
this is going to be a messy situation.
We also have to remember this this bull
market has been battle-tested. We think
about since COVID, we've gone through a
series of shocks, right? We've gone
through the COVID shock, the fastest
rate hikes since the '80s, the highest
inflation since the '70s,
the terrorist shock last year. And there
was in some cases even more meaningful
downside, obviously, than where we are
today. But eventually, markets rebounded
and earnings rebounded as well. So,
again, I think this is going to be a
messy period. We are on the one-year
anniversary of that 9% move last year.
But if you look at what happened after
the kind of the pause in tariffs last
year as maybe a little bit of a road
map, even though we we know there's a
lot of things different. I mean, the
next day you were down 3 and 1/2% and it
was a very choppy period. So, that's
what we That's our kind of baseline
today. That's going to be a choppy
period, but we still think ultimately
what happens with AI and other things
outside Iran also matter. But isn't this
different than last year? Because last
year Trump was in full control. This
year he's dealing with a party that's
very unknown. It's still the same
regime, just some different players. You
can't control for that. Yeah, certainly.
And I again, I think you have when you
talk about
analogies to past or analogs, I should
say, to past periods, like there's a lot
of differences from last year. But at
least you know, I think again, going
back to
one, investors have been conditioned a
bit that not to overreact in some ways
to each event. And again, I go back to
you know, the US economy's ability to
adapt. And you know, another interesting
stat that I've been sharing with some of
our clients, you know, since the global
financial crisis, which is about 17
years ago or 200 months, and we probably
talk about recession 80, 85% of the
time, but we've been in recession two
months, which is 1% of the time. So,
again, it doesn't mean that I maybe I'm
jinxing it by even bringing that up. But
again, I mean, we all know that the
energy intensity of the economy is
somewhat different than it was over the
last couple decades. And I think more
important, as we start to go into
earning season, really is what's
happening with AI. Again, which drives
about 45 or 50% of the S&P 500.
>> Staying on the geopolitics, though,
Goldman out this morning was saying if
Brent averages $100 barrel, basically,
it will stay that way for the next year
if the Strait is closed for another
month. And at the moment, the Strait is
closed. What's going to be the impact on
earnings if that is the base case?
>> Yeah, well, I think, you know, in some
ways it will be disparate, right? I
mean, going back to the AI comment, I
don't think this is going to really
impact with the AI spending, which is
the the main driver, the strongest
earning trends within the markets still.
I mean, we're seeing earnings for the
energy sector obviously revised strongly
up, but it's going to be more of a
negative for the consumer. It's going to
be more of a negative for staples. It
was notable that yesterday Delta came
out still saying we have somewhat of a
robust demand. And the other part I
would say, going back to earnings, that
is the North Star of this bull market.
We are still seeing forward earning
estimates, which will will change with a
lag, making new highs. And we're seeing
that broaden out, at least before this.
I I I do suspect, though, that we'd like
to see some of these trends flatten out
somewhat. But again, I think it's going
to be hopefully nice to get into the
earning season so we have something else
to talk about somewhat each morning. I
can embrace that and endorse that
wholeheartedly. Especially cuz
yesterday, as you said, we got Delta
earnings, which was really telling.
People are hoping that the economic data
this week will offer some reprieve from
just chasing the different headlines and
exactly whether it's ceasefire on or
ceasefire off or what is actually what
it actually means. We're going to be
getting core PCE later today. We're
going to get jobless claims tomorrow. We
get PCI data. All of this coming, Dan,
as people try to figure out what the
economic ramifications from some of the
conflict really looks like. I mean, do
you get a sense of what we'll learn this
week, particularly tomorrow with respect
to the inflationary component stemming
from this crisis. Uh I don't think we're
going to learn very much. I think we
know that in the short term there's
going to be a big spike in in uh in in
the energy component of of various
inflation measures. But to Anne Marie's
point, the issue here is is persistence.
And so you know again, I've said this
before but it bears repeating, we call
them oil price spikes not oil price
plateaus. And if oil prices were to
remain high, if gas prices were to
follow and get up to 425 or even five
bucks and and which is a distinct
possibility if this goes if this goes
south, then you start to worry a little
bit more about the strength of consumer
spending. But to Keith's point, I don't
think it's particularly recessionary.
You'd really have to stress the consumer
in a healthy labor market with real wage
growth uh to to to to start talking
about a recession. The bigger issue is
with an economy growing call it 2 and
1/2% how many tenths do you start to
shave off. Again, I don't think it's
bear market inducing. I don't think it's
recession inducing, but it's enough to
start taking down
noticeably your estimates. I just Yeah,
I mean I just wondered though is this
more inflationary than it is for example
a hit to growth that could potentially
be good for stocks in the long run.
There's a lot of uh moving parts, but I
would say also you know Dan we we you
talked about not overreacting and not
doing much. I do think on the margin
there are some things on the margin we
do like for instance yesterday we saw
energy stocks at one point down about
four or five percent. We actually
upgraded energy yesterday not because we
think it's necessarily going right back
to where it was but because the the
range of outcomes are so wide. We're
overweight industrials, we're overweight
tech. If this this situation escalates
then on the margin we'll go back to
energy being an outperformer as well. We
also recently just extended our duration
uh for the first time in a while. Uh I
know you know where we are near you know
one year highs or we were on on yields
and we've actually dipped our toes back
into high yield for the first time as
well as as credit spreads have widened
and yields are above 7%. Again not going
all in but you know if you wait for all
certainty the market has moved at to
Dan's point the S&P I mean if I gave you
all the headlines we should probably be
down a lot more. So I'm not saying
that's a great opportunity yet. But
we've been telling you know last week
into this in towards the end of last
week we were saying at least on a short
term we were seeing some signs of an
oversold condition for the market. Not
an extreme relative to what we've seen
in the past but enough to say let's
start dipping our toe back in.
>> Although I will say the headlines are
near highs but but as investors we're
picking individual stocks, individual
credits.
When I talk to people they are way more
shell shocked than the headline index
would suggest because a lot of stocks
are down 20, 30%. A lot of widely held
stocks. Maybe we don't discuss them on
TV everyday but among investors there's
a lot more pain than obviously the
headlines would suggest. Which is the
reason why a lot of people are looking
at how much positioning has changed even
if maybe the headlines headline index
hasn't come down that much. Keith Lerner
of Truist thank you so much for being
with us this morning. Really appreciate
seeing you Dan. We're not letting you go
just yet. Right now let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg Brief
with you Hiraant and Yahaira. Good
morning Lisa. The White House saying
Vice President JD Vance will lead direct
talks with Iran and Pakistan. Vance will
be joined by special envoy Steve Witkoff
and Jared Kushner.
>> [music]
>> The first round of talks is set for
Saturday morning local time.
Iranian officials say Israel's strikes
on Lebanon violate terms of the
ceasefire agreement. Israel launched
[music] its largest assault on Lebanon
yesterday since the start of the war.
The country's health ministry saying at
least 182 people were killed and
hundreds were [music] wounded.
And two Chinese oil tankers are waiting
near the entrance to the Strait of
Hormuz hoping to be the first
non-Iranian ships to make it through
since a ceasefire was announced. Despite
the agreement traffic [music] through
the chokehold has been little changed.
That's the Bloomberg Brief Lisa. Thank
you so much Yahairaant and Amry. It's
really interesting [music] that China is
trying to test this first that there are
two of them lined up ready to get
through.
>> can't pick a friendlier country for
Iran. It was the entire reason why Iran
had any inflows of money coming in for
years cuz they buy the lion's share of
their crude and they are even having
trouble transiting through the strait.
>> Which just highlights the problems right
now with really depending on the
ceasefire. Up next a fragile truce.
I think the Iranians thought that the
ceasefire included Lebanon and it just
didn't. If Iran wants to let this
negotiation fall apart in a conflict
where they were getting hammered over
Lebanon which has nothing to do with
them, that's ultimately their choice.
OECD Chief Economist Stefano Scarpeta
joins us next as we try to parse through
the economic consequences. This is
Bloomberg [music] Surveillance. Good
morning.
Stocks giving back some of the optimism
that we saw yesterday after some
questions about just how consistent the
ceasefire can actually uh
>> [music]
>> be considering the fact that ships
really are not going through the Strait
of Hormuz just yet and a lot of pretty
animated rhetoric from both sides. Right
now you're seeing S&P futures lower 4/10
of a percent. Nasdaq futures down about
a third of a percent. Crude getting back
up in action up almost 4% $98.43
and 10-year yield just a touch lower.
Really [music] an interesting story of
what the haven bids have been amid a
potential inflationary push. Under
surveillance this morning a fragile
truce.
I think the Iranians thought that the
ceasefire included Lebanon and it just
didn't. What we said is that the
ceasefire would be focused on Iran and
the ceasefire would be focused on
America's allies. If Iran wants to let
this negotiation fall apart in a
conflict where they were getting
hammered over Lebanon which has nothing
to do with them and which the United
States never once said was part of the
ceasefire, that's ultimately their
choice. Here's the latest crude climbing
as Tehran says some terms of the
ceasefire have been violated. The energy
shock rippling through the global
economy joining us now. I'm so pleased
to say is OECD Chief Economist Stefano
Scarpeta. Stefano, thank you so much for
getting for making some time. How much
are you looking at a dampening effect on
the global economy as a result of what's
going on in the Middle East?
Well of course there is a lot of
uncertainty. We just published our
interim economic outlook on the 26th of
November.
And basically if on the 28th of February
before the the war in Iran would have
actually revised upward the projection
for global GDP growth for 2026 by 0.3
percentage point. All of that was shaved
off because of the impact of the uh the
war and the crisis in the Middle East
and the increase of course in energy
prices. Now the recent announcement of
the ceasefire if it is implemented, if
this means of course a reopen the Strait
of Hormuz and we have seen already in
the impact on the price of oil would
have sort of a sort of an effect on the
economy and we see already a reduction
in the price of oil. But of course there
are a lot of ifs here because these have
to be maintained the ceasefire and we
have to see exactly vessels getting
through the Strait of Hormuz. So
unfortunately we have to revise
basically our projection by all the
increase that would have happened if it
was not because of the war. How much are
Europe and Asian nations
disproportionately affected by the fact
that oil prices are likely to remain
significantly higher even if there is
some sort of conclusion at least in the
north north in the near term to this
conflict?
No indeed of course Asia in general and
Europe are more affected by the high
king price of oil and gas in particular
the Asian countries.
But I think even within the Asia region
there are significant differences
because two countries that depend
heavily on oil getting through the
Strait of Hormuz like Korea and Japan,
they have large reserves. While other
countries in the region Indonesia,
Thailand have much smaller reserves so
they're more exposed to the high king
price than the other two countries.
Europe of course is also dependent on
gas coming from the Strait of Hormuz so
is of course more exposed. What matters
really is the duration of this increase
in oil prices and gas prices
and of course whether or not there have
been damage to the infrastructure in the
region in Iran and other neighboring
countries because of course the
repairing the damages may take long and
this may actually have an impact on the
profile of oil and gas prices going
forward. When it comes to duration, when
do you know you can no longer just look
through this and actually there's going
to be structural changes and and
permanent shifts?
Well that's a good question. It depends
again on for how long the price will
stay high. We have seen the short-term
responses in many countries of the OECD
including a support to consumer and to
firms to face this hike in energy price.
We have seen that in Europe but
basically most of the OECD countries
they early measure that have been
introduced has been way to basically
reduce the increase in price at the gas
station and for the companies but of
course these are very expensive so they
cannot be prolonged for too long and our
recommendation is to try to move as
quickly as possible to more targeted
measure that actually provide support to
consumers most affected by the increase
in energy prices and actually to the
firms that depend more by energy. So
this is I think is our recommendation.
Then of course there might be some
rationing. We have learned through the
COVID crisis that some telework actually
may reduce sort of the consumption of
energy and I think these are also
implemented by a number of countries
indeed. Well do member countries have
the fiscal capacity to fight this?
That's a very good question because of
course the fiscal capacity is limited
and that's one more reason why we are
recommended to move into target measure
and actually temporary measures because
of course what happened in the 2022
energy crisis was some of the price
support measures were kept for too long
and this led of course to significant
public spending on in this in this area.
So,
there's a need to targeting and there is
also a need to already introduce a
sunset clauses whereby if the price go
down then this measure will be removed
quickly. Stefano Scarpetta, OECD chief
economist, thank you so much for being
with us this morning. Dan Greenhouse of
Solace is here with us this morning. How
much are you looking at this and saying
Europe really cannot be the trade that
people go to for diversification because
of some of the risks that you see from
both higher commodity prices and frankly
geopolitical alliances that are
shifting. Yeah, I think that's probably
right. I I
I think it's too simple to say Europe is
trading cheap to the US in a variety of
metrics or I I think after so many years
of outperformance by the part of US risk
assets, there was a sense that now it's
the world's turn if you will. And that
looked like it might be the case for a
little while, but I always come back to
the reality that the US is still where
the world's growth is
both from macroeconomically and from a
from a corporate standpoint. And I just
I I I still see tons of value in the
long term from from US risk assets on a
comparative basis.
>> How much has big tech in the US become
the haven trade? I mean honestly this is
to me is sort of the irony once again of
2026 and how much it's reminded us of
2025. Everyone came in broadening out,
the economy is going to broaden, you can
invest in the rest of the world. And
then bam, after liberation day not so
much. Is it the same thing now? Yeah,
well listen the mag seven and large tech
has been a haven trade for quite some
time. They they just have much better
growth profiles, cash flow profiles,
etc. etc. And so to the extent that
anyone was worried about their valuation
premiums, they kept telling you quarter
after quarter that they earned and
demanded that level of evaluation
premium. And to a large degree that's
still true. I think there's probably
some exhaustion here in the sense that
well let's broaden out. It doesn't have
to be Google, it could be Sandisk, etc.
etc. But yeah, I think they're
absolutely safe haven trades. But again,
they're doing so well fundamentally,
it's really hard to argue with that.
Keith is putting a lot of emphasis as
well on the AI trade, but these are
energy heavy
trades, right? These are data centers,
these are companies that are going to
use a lot of energy. At some point does
that cost matter or they're too big and
too great where a few extra dollars on
diesel and gas doesn't really matter?
Well no, it certainly matters. And where
it really matters, we don't spend enough
time talking about it is on the
political front. I mean you've seen
several states I think Maine just did
something where they prevented a data
center from being built. It's
particularly in the in the Virginia area
where where you see the most data center
construction, there's a lot of concern
about energy prices. Everybody
everywhere is worried about water and
and every and electricity. We've already
seen US electricity prices go up. So
this is a a growing and likely not
likely to end soon story. Well the
president actually told energy companies
they need to basically subsidize
consumers.
>> Sure. We'll see how this unfolds. I
think you're going to end up at some
point with legislation. I mean in the
the president says a lot of things that
Well he did a Well he did a whole event
with meta. Sure.
But the fact that it rises to the
presidential level that he would have an
event speaks to the political
sensitivity around the rise in
electricity prices again particularly in
the Virginia area. So I don't think I
don't think that story But but from an
investment standpoint, I don't think
that's particularly prohibitive right
now. What's going on with Google
fundamentally, what's going on with meta
fundamentally in terms of driving
traffic and the ability to stave off AI
from search in Google's case obviously
is is far more determinant in the short
term than than the electricity or or
power cost more generally. And it's
frankly an inelastic capex, right? So
it's something that is price independent
at a time costs are going up, but that's
okay. Ultimately as we've seen from a
lot of the bond offerings too that have
come out and frankly have been over
subscribed to a lot of the data centers.
Right now we're waiting for what we get
at 8:30 a.m. Eastern which is core PCE
personal income and spending. We'll get
a read into exactly how people are
keying off what's going on now, but also
how much momentum there was coming into
this as well as jobless claims which
frankly have fallen off a cliff. It
seems like that doesn't seem to matter
anymore. Heading into tomorrow, the PCI
the CPI data, I mean ultimately we're
going to see an inflationary impact. At
what point AMH is it going to start to
bleed through in terms of longer term
sentiment?
>> Especially when you look at the Fed
minutes minutes and you see that there
is a concern about inflation. They do
see risks to their dual mandate. [music]
Yeah, well coming up we're going to talk
about the keynote of that inflation, oil
prices. Stephen Schork of the Schork
Group with crude trading back near
triple digits. Plus you hire on it with
your morning movers, DataDog rising as a
software firm gets a fresh upgrade on
Wall Street. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
Ceasefire. What ceasefire? That's what
the market seems to be implying this
morning [music] as it assesses whether
or not you can get some sort of more
permanent resolution between Iran and
the US. But you can see in markets a
little bit of a taking back of
yesterday's enthusiasm about a 3/10 of a
percent decline on S&P futures, less on
the Nasdaq 100 futures lower there only
by 2/10 of a percent as people look to
that as the haven trade. Russell 2000
down 6/10 of a percent with bonds very
much in focus. Yesterday a really
tumultuous day. I'd love your thoughts
on this Dan. I mean ultimately right now
you are seeing a bid back into bonds,
but yesterday what happened with the
10-year auction, with what happened with
rates actually giving back some of the
gains and then some even with the
optimism that clearly is fading this
morning, but at the time was still
intact. I think in the short term here
everyone is trying to figure out what's
going on with the ceasefire that isn't a
ceasefire
>> [music]
>> with ships going through the straight
but aren't going through the straight.
Iran is telling ships
>> [clears throat]
>> they need to ask for permission.
Listen, a 428 on the 10-year
I know there's a lot of concern that
it's up from four, but I could also say
it's down from five.
All right, there you go. And this is the
reason why people are looking at the
length of how long this conflict will go
on, what the contours of this conflict
are and the Helima Croft point the
permanent risk premium that needs to get
baked in when you take a look at crude
prices right now. The June contract for
both WTI and Brent both higher by more
than 3% still below $100 a barrel and
AMH it seems like people are assessing
this as a positive sign even though
there's so many questions and so much
hair around the ceasefire. Absolutely.
So I think going to the weekend there's
going to be a lot of risk. People
[music] maybe just want to stay on the
sidelines cuz what actually happens in
Islamabad given how far [music] apart
the Iranian regime is to what the
president of the United States wants to
see. Dan, is this tradeable in any way
shape or form? Yeah, I mean for fun, but
I don't think I I don't think anyone
thinks My guess would be most people
don't think they can
convincingly
make money on you know to the point
[music] about the ceasefire not being a
ceasefire.
No one agrees on anything. And there
isn't even a ceasefire. The second the
headlines hit, there were missiles being
flown into various countries, the
East-West pipeline was bombed. And this
was right after the ceasefire. So no, I
don't I don't think you can necessarily
trade this in any convincing way. So
bullish poly market and bearish the rest
of the market. 3 hours away from the
cash open. Here's your morning movers
with Yahaira Onning, Yahaira. Hi Lisa.
We start with Applied Digital. Those
shares falling 3.6%
in the pre-market even after the company
gave a strong quarter revenue more
[music] than doubling, but margins
coming in well below estimates and the
company plans to spend even more
>> [music]
>> to build out AI data centers. So it's a
familiar theme playing out strong AI
demand, but the cost to keep up is
weighing on profits and hitting the
stock this morning. Meanwhile, we are
seeing shares of Marvell rising nearly
2% in the pre-market after a fresh
upgrade by analysts over at Barclays to
overweight pointing [music] to surging
demand for optical chips tied to AI
infrastructure. Barclays saying that
part of the business [music] could grow
close to 90% even amid competition from
the likes of Broadcom and that's expect
that's [music] extending a rally that's
already seen this stock jump 35%
>> [music]
>> year to date. And we end on some more
sell-side action with DataDog up 3% in
the pre-market after analysts over at
Guggenheim rated it a buy. Analysts see
>> [music]
>> the cloud software company actually
benefiting from AI-driven data growth
and this is notable because this was one
of those stocks caught up in the SaaS
apocalypse back in February, Lisa.
>> [music]
>> Thank you so much Yahaira answering a
question I think AMH had about what
DataDog was. It's a mere cloud-based
monitoring [music] security platform.
Just so you know.
>> heard DataDog and I thought of Dogecoin.
Really? Are you a DataDog user Doge? I
thought of a hot dog wrapped in a
silicon case. Anyway, on our radar this
morning, Israel launching its largest
assault on Lebanon since the start of
the war targeting more than 100
Hezbollah's military sites. The attacks
putting the US-Iran ceasefire in
jeopardy as Tehran threatens a heavy
response. Vice President J.D. Vance
heading to Pakistan where he'll lead US
talks with Iran. Vance saying he hopes
Tehran will negotiate in good faith. The
first round of talks are scheduled for
Saturday in Islamabad. Do we think that
they're actually going to take place
AMH? At this moment, the White House was
pretty direct yesterday naming names of
who's going to go. Alongside him will be
Steve Whitkoff and Jared Kushner. But of
course to Dan's point, a lot of people
don't believe this ceasefire is real. So
potentially what happens in the next 48
hours I think will determine whether or
not you see that meeting.
>> Yeah, it's a real mixed messaging coming
from the Iranian side. Meanwhile, in the
United States Fed officials seeing
two-sided risks from the Iran war. The
minutes of last month's FOMC meeting
show some officials are open to even a
rate hike due to inflation concerns
while most worry a protracted war could
hurt the labor market warranting a rate
cut. Dan, it seems like the market
shrugged this off as just trying to
jawbone the market into behaving when it
comes to inflation expectations. Do you
think a rate hike could squarely be on
the table with an increasing number of
officials a little bit worried that they
haven't reached their 2% target more
than 5 years. I don't think so. I don't
think a rate hike is legitimately on the
table especially cuz I cuz I've come
down in the former camp, which is if oil
prices spike and stay up there for some
period of time and that starts to weigh
on demand, etc., etc.
>> [clears throat]
>> I think you could make a case that a
rate cut is even more likely rather than
a rate hike. But yes, I think the
minutes are probably out there telling
people
I mean that's what the minutes are for.
They get edited up until the day they
get released and they sort of want to
convey a message. The Fed can do it
through the minutes and I think they
succeeded in that way yesterday. Does it
really matter as much as it used to to a
lot of traders in the market what the
Fed minutes or even Fed rhetoric sounds
like right now?
Listen, the Fed really matters most at
the extremes. When they when they raise
rates too high or they cut rates too
low, quote-unquote, in both cases. In
the middle, I don't like you get a lot
of people who come on air saying does 25
basis points really matter? And I think
we're probably in one of those one of
those worlds right now. I I there are a
lot of people, I include myself, who
thought rates were too high at 5 and
1/2, too high at 4 and 1/2. At 3 and
1/2, you have a much more balanced take
on things. I still think they're
probably 25 or 50 basis points too high.
But but there's a good debate either
way. Lisa, I think who matters to is
Kevin Warsh. It's like a warning shot.
This is the group of individuals you're
going to be dealing with when you
finally go through a Senate confirmation
and get a vote to actually the Federal
Reserve. I also I apologize. Also, some
of this is positioning on the part of
the Federal Reserve in front of the
incoming Fed chair. I should have
mentioned that as well. That's actually
a really good point. We'll talk about
that more coming up. Turning back to our
top story, the US and Iran gearing up
for peace talks on the heels of a
fragile ceasefire.
The president will only make a deal that
serves in the best interests of the
United States of America and his
negotiating team will focus on this
effort over the next 2 weeks. So long as
the Strait of Hormuz remains open with
no limitations or delays. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall joins us now. Tyler,
what's the latest?
Yeah, hey Lisa, good morning. Well,
President Trump posted on Truth Social
overnight saying that the US remains
ready to resume military operations if
Iran does not adhere to the ceasefire
and until a full agreement is in place,
putting the same emphasis as you just
heard the White House press secretary
there on the need to reopen the Strait
of Hormuz because yesterday Iranian
state media had reported that Iran was
going to continue to halt ships as Iran
maintains that it needs to see fighting
stop in Lebanon in order for the 2-week
truce to take place. Now, this despite
the US saying that Israel's separate
front against the Iranian-backed
militant group Hezbollah was never part
of any ceasefire deal and President
Trump is downplaying the potential that
it could derail diplomatic efforts. Now,
we did hear from the Vice President J.D.
Vance yesterday, who was leading the US
side of negotiations, say that the US
has started to see signs that the Strait
is reopening despite data analyzed by
Bloomberg News showing that only three
ships exited the region yesterday amid
an 800 vessel backlog and new this
morning, Iran saying that it has
established safe passage routes for
entering and exiting the waterway in
what appears to be a bid to avoid the
potential presence of mines in primary
traffic lanes. Now, Lisa, yesterday
President Trump met privately with the
NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte as a
senior NATO official tells Bloomberg
News that the US made it very clear that
they would like to see tangible plans
presented within days on how European
allies are going to help secure the
waterway. Tyler Kendall, thank you so
much for the reporting. Oil, meanwhile,
heading back toward triple digits.
Stephen Schork of the Schork Group
writing, "The market isn't pricing in
full normalization yet. Until crude is
physically moving through Hormuz, oil
prices stay structurally bid." Stephen
joins us now. Stephen, thank you so much
for being with us. How much are you
gleaning in terms of whether the Strait
of Hormuz is open, whether it's not
open, and what a new normal could look
like?
Yeah, absolutely. Thank you and good
morning. So, we're looking at the spread
action and actually with
>> [clears throat]
>> seeing nearly all of the headline
numbers coming off significantly. Some
of the spreads being
cut in half, the spreads that is for
non-WTI. When we still look at the
market, West Texas oil delivered into
Houston bid against European oil surged
20% yesterday. That is to say dated
Brent
cargoes traded in North Sea moved to a
$19 to $20 premium to Gulf Coast crude.
So, that is your clearest telltale that
the market is highly skeptical that the
ceasefire is real. take and will
actually open up the Strait of Hormuz.
So, until we start to see some sort of
convergence between global energy
prices, dated Brent or Dubai against the
Gulf Coast crude,
the message is that the ceasefire is
just headline only and it's all about
the barrels and the flow and right now
we're not seeing either of those two.
Yet still, Brent is under $100 a barrel
and maybe yesterday
two four vessels got through the Strait
of Hormuz, shouldn't actually prices be
higher?
Yeah, yeah, it's an excellent question
and into your point, they they are
higher and it's it's all relative. So,
this point, Gulf Coast crude
delivered into Houston right now is the
cheapest barrel
on Earth right now and those spread
differentials at at 1920, if we look at
the Dubai market at the end of last
week, it was $30 a barrel. So, getting a
few vessels through when you start to
hear the rhetoric that's still coming
out of Iran, certainly doesn't sound
like this this ceasefire
will take at this point. So,
I mean should they be higher? In a flat
price,
I mean the market is the market. What
we're looking at is the difference
between locations and right now the
location of oil where it is, that is to
say in the Gulf Coast where there is
plenty of that oil and where it needs to
be in Asia, we're still looking at an
extremely wide differential. So, it's
all about the differential between
locations rather than just the flat
outright price. Are Asian customers
looking for product elsewhere like the
United States? They are our contacts in
the Gulf Coast.
The Asian buyers, particularly Japan,
would be rather discerning on where
they're buying the crude, their quality
of the crude
at this point and this has been the
get-go for the past few weeks. Asia's
coming in full blast and they're
discerning on quality, location, so
terms, so forth. It was buy first,
negotiate later. So, we've already
started to see that massive influx of
Asian buyers into the Gulf Coast.
European buyers were a little bit behind
the curve. So, what we're starting to
see now is a balancing
of the Brent market and I want to be
clear about this, not the futures
market. The futures market on ICE is
delivered in June. The dated Brent
market is barrels actually the physical
market actually being traded today and
that diff is still, as we said, about
$20 a barrel. So, we saw a
equalization of Asia the Asian bid and
the European bid coming into the Gulf
Coast, but this is where the action is
right now. So, prior to the ceasefire
headline, what you started to see is
Gulf Coast crude non-WTI migrate being
pulled up to where the global price is.
If we do get a a ceasefire,
again, what we saw with the spreads is
there's still a lot of skepticism that
we'll see any of this oil flow anytime
in the near future and hence why I said
in the note to clients that regardless
of whether ceasefire takes place, we're
we're in a new normal right right now
where the fundamentals are are
constantly shifting underneath our feet.
Stephen, I had several questions for you
and you just answered all of them in
that one long answer. So, I'll just I'll
follow I'll follow up with So, we've
seen the intensity of demand out of
Asia.
Numerous reports are bearing it out
exactly what you just said. How long do
you think it takes for that demand
intensity to migrate from Asia to Europe
and eventually the United States? Cuz to
Anne Marie's question about and your
answer about the differentials between
US-based oil and global oil benchmarks,
how long till that stress starts putting
upward pressure on the other metrics?
Well, I think right now, again, Dan,
looking at those three
actually the spread action going out for
the next few months, we have an extreme
war premium priced into the front end of
the curve to the point where just
because of this headline, those spreads
and I'm talking non-WTI were cut in
half. So, if we look out for the next 3
months, the market is telling us it's
going to be any sort of 3 months before
we start to see any sort of kind of
normalization. So, right now, we have to
keep in mind we're coming out of the
turnaround season, the maintenance
season. So, physical demand for oil from
refineries is actually at its lowest
point of the year because refineries are
in their their maintenance season. So,
they're they're they're they're
processing less crude, they're buying
fewer barrels. Now that we're getting
into April and then next month, Memorial
Day, the kickoff to the Northern
Hemisphere holiday season, this is when
we really have to be wary of. So, we are
the future market is saying at least 3
months before we see normalization. Dan,
to answer your question,
we are within 2 months as the second
component now in the thesis kicks in.
That is to say rising demand here
particularly in the United States. As we
all know, I'm in Pennsylvania, so we all
head out to the Jersey Shore. New
Yorkers are going to drive out to the
Hamptons. So, when that demand starts to
kick in, that's when we'll start to see
some real action here. Stephen Schork of
the Schork Group, thank you so much for
being with us this morning. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Here is your Bloomberg Brief
with Yahaira on and Yahaira. Hi, Lisa.
President Trump lashing out at NATO
after a meeting with the Secretary
General Mark Rutte. In a post on Truth
Social, Trump writing, quote, "NATO
wasn't there when we needed them and
they won't be there if we need them
again." Rouda saying he had he and Trump
had a frank [music] and open discussion.
The US is considering lifting sanctions
on Venezuela's Central Bank to
facilitate the flow of billions of
dollars into [music] the country's
economy. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the move would allow proceeds
from oil sales to circulate more freely
through Venezuela's financial [music]
system.
And PIMCO is looking to sell portions of
the $14 billion debt it's providing for
Oracle. The tech firm will use the funds
for a massive data center in Michigan.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
financing is being led by Bank of
America with Blackstone contributing
about $2 billion
in equity. The companies [music]
declined to comment. That's your
Bloomberg brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Yahaira. Up next, the
case to wait.
I see the underlying fundamentals of the
economy as really in a good place. The
question is what's going to happen with
the war. It's really too early to make
any [music] statements about that
because we don't know how long the
conflict will last. Kit Jukes of SocGen
joins next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> The risk-on feel from yesterday fading
into just slightly risk-off as people
question the state of the ceasefire.
Right [music] now you can see that in
markets with equity futures lower. You
can see that bond yields actually going
lower as well with a bid there. Dollar
losing some clout. This is interesting
because at one point this was the haven
trade and this morning even as oil
prices rise, you're not [music] seeing
that bid into the US greenback. Under
surveillance this morning Fed meeting
minutes for March show some officials
are willing to keep rates rate hikes on
the table of higher energy prices
continue. Still most are worried about a
longer war and ultimately structural
changes. This is what's getting a lot of
people in markets interested. Kit Jukes
of SocGen are joining us right now from
our London studio. Kit, I'd love to get
your thoughts not just on Fed
positioning but the broader debate
that's going on right now about whether
Iran is going to charge nations in UN
Chinese yuan renminbi or Bitcoin to
traverse the strait at a time when
people are wondering whether the
dollar's dominance is being called into
question. How much are you hearing about
that field and questions about that?
I definitely have been I mean for a
while in in various forms. I mean
there's no doubt that more more people
would like to transact away from the
dollar partly because you know there are
constraints imposed in terms of you know
if I work in a bank if we do
transactions with with the wrong
countries we get into all sorts of
trouble if we do it in dollars. So so
there's there's pressure and the
Iranians are clearly part of that.
It reduces the dollar's share of global
transactions but from a huge percentage
to a really really big percentage. So
dominance remains but it's not quite as
dominant as it was before. And that's
probably I mean a good thing because the
US share of the global economy is going
down as countries like China grow. And I
remember once upon a time sterling was
the dominant currency. It definitely
outlived its use became a problem for
the UK and it was a good thing for
everyone when the dollar replaced it. So
I don't think there's a replacement.
There isn't an alternative to the dollar
but there's no doubt more people would
like to have more of their savings
somewhere else and they would like to do
fewer of their transactions in dollars.
That is nibbling away at the dollar's
importance. How much, Kit, do you see
this in the lack of a haven trade that
you've seen in the dollar? You have seen
a knee-jerk bid into the dollar during
times of extreme stress. Some people
have argued it isn't as significant as
it would have been in prior times of
volatility. Do you agree with that? Do
you think that that limits some of the
upside?
Okay, I certainly think that the dollar
did less well. Euro-dollar got to 114 in
in the you know in the in the height of
this. I I thought it might get to 110.
So So the dollar did less well in the
rally of of the kind of the heat of this
war and it's and it's doing much better
than you think it should at the point
where where you know where some of the
where at least we've got a sort of a
ceasefire. So so there's some there's
something in that. It's not just though
that that the dollar's preeminence is
going. It's that this US administration
makes some investors nervous. They would
like to keep they would like to find a
way to keep interest rates low. They
would like to continue to run large
fiscal deficits. They would like to
continue to have high unemployment and
they would like to have a high
employment very low unemployment and
they would you know they would like to
have their cake and and eat all of it at
this point. You know it's kind of
everybody else is talking much more
aggressively about perhaps needing to
counter higher inflation with higher
rates than than US officials are. Well,
when it comes to higher inflation if we
get another big spike in energy prices
and this ceasefire does not hold, what
do you do with the fact that you like
the yen right now? Do you abandon a yen
long because energy spike is not going
to be good for Japan.
Yeah, the
the yen long was more appealing
yesterday than it is today after the
events when we when we see the the
ceasefire kind of creak a little bit and
I think that is that is a problem. I'm
still somewhat comforted by the fact
that dollar yen having made it to 160 is
struggling to get through in in sort of
purchasing power parity terms or any
other terms. It's a it's the most beaten
up of the major currencies.
So I have no interest in shorting it.
There are huge they're hugely dependent
on foreign energy. So it'll it'll do
well when energy prices start coming
down. I suspect the miserable answer is
that if energy prices stay high for
longer, dollar yen stays at 159 to 160
for even more time.
Kit, so we talk a lot about the the move
away from the dollar, dollar weakness,
etc. etc. But if we use the for a lot of
people will use the DXY as as the
barometer. It's basically at its average
level over the last 10 years. It's still
10-20% higher than it was around the
time of the mid-2010s of the taper
tantrum.
It's still 90% or 75% of global trade
according to the IMF. It's still 55-60%
of global reserves. It still is a
reserve currency and the main reason why
is there's no alternative. So for the
foreseeable future it's still the
dollar, no?
Yes, the dollar is still the world's
dominant currency. It's slightly less
dominant than it was and I suspect it
may continue to be slightly less but
that's just a good thing because the US
is the world's dominant economy. It's
just as a share of global GDP it's a
little bit lower and there's been more
politicization of of the dollar. I think
the valuation story is about really US
monetary and fiscal policies more than
about people losing faith in dollar. In
other words, if the Fed raise rates more
than the ECB, more than the Bank of
Japan in the face of an inflation shock,
the dollar would go up.
And right now people are expecting the
opposite. Kit Jukes of SocGen, thank you
so much for being with us. Really
appreciate it. That really is kind of
the key question and Dan, look, I can
tell you're pushing back and I think a
lot of people would agree with you.
We've been crying wolf a long time on
this idea of a dollar dominance losing
its clout.
>> a tweet I have it on my phone a bet with
Peter Bookvar from like 10 years ago
that the Chinese yuan would be a
comparable reserve currency to the US
dollar in like 15 years time. I can't
find it on my phone right now but that
bet exists. Meaning 10 years ago we were
talking about the dollar sliding as a
And which side were you on? I think the
dollar remains. When you if you read
like Barry Eichengreen's book Exorbitant
Privilege or you just study marginally
the history of reserve currencies,
you've got to really wrest you've got to
do some bad not that we're not doing
some bad stuff in the US but you've got
to really wrest away the reserve
currency from the from Britain and and
now the US. It doesn't just happen
overnight. Something's got to really
drive it and
at least in my forward-looking view
there's nothing that wrests that away
from the US. Dan Greenhaus of Solus
Asset Management, thank you so much for
being with us this morning. Wonderful to
have you.
>> glad we finally got John out of the way
so the three of us could do [laughter]
Absolutely not. He is back next week so
have no fear. And Emre, I want to hear
more about your trip to Ecuador. Coming
up we're going to be catching up with
Bob Michael of JP Morgan, former Deputy
National Security Advisor Victoria
Coates, Ted Mortensen of Baird, and Jill
Carey Hall of Bank of America as we look
to another day of headline website. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Situations like this highlight the
resilience of the US economy.
>> There are some little pockets of
inflationary pressures. [music] We will
continue to see upward pressure in
inflation.
>> We still think there will be one,
perhaps two rate cuts.
>> We continue [music] to expect the Fed to
cut rates. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Live from New York.
Welcome back to the second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance. Traders losing
faith in a ceasefire between the US and
Iran with ships still struggling to get
through the Strait of Hormuz. Futures
dipping, oil rising, employment
inflation data coming up with jobless
claims and core [music] PCE 90 minutes
away. The key question, Anne Marie, that
keeps coming up. How do you trade
markets that really are completely at
the mercy of headline [music] roulette.
It's very challenging especially when
the facts on the ground have not
changed. So do you go with the headline
and the intuition potentially of where
the market might be going with the
President of the United States saying or
do you actually look at the facts on the
ground which haven't [music] changed
when it comes to this conflict. The
Strait of Hormuz is effectively closed
or if you want to say controlled by the
regime and yesterday even though the
White House [music] kept saying they saw
an uptick,
there was no uptick. There was zero to
four vessels that maybe got through the
strait yesterday. [music] And a real
question here of what was agreed upon in
the ceasefire, what wasn't agreed upon,
questions of whether Israel had agreed
also to cease [music] some of the
attacks on Lebanon as part of that or
not, conflicting conversations coming
out of both sides.
>> Yeah, which is why I think a lot of
investors probably will just want to
stay on the sidelines until there's a
little bit more clarity potentially
coming out of these Islamabad talks over
the weekend [music] because there has
been just a ton of noise coming out of
not just Tehran and the United States,
but also [music]
what Israel's doing and will they listen
to the United States depending on if a
ceasefire in terms of if Lebanon is
agreed upon or not this weekend. [music]
So, there's a lot of noise right now and
I think that's why individuals just have
a lot of questions and there's not a lot
of clarity, especially the President of
the United States
>> [music]
>> very late last night says he's keeping
all the military hardware in the region
as basically a just-in-case [music]
policy.
>> In the meantime, yesterday markets had a
great day in terms of a risk-on with
this belief [music] in a ceasefire. We
saw a 2.8% gain on the NASDAQ, a 2 and
1/2% gain on the S&P 500. Today, we just
take some of the heat out of that rally,
down about a third of a percent for the
S&P and the NASDAQ. Russell 2000 more
interesting, down 7/10 of a percent
[music] as people look to the potential
suppressive impacts on growth. Take a
look at what's happening in the yield
space, a little bit of a bid into bonds,
which is interesting in light of the
direct correlation between bonds and oil
prices recently and especially given the
volatility yesterday. A real sense of
paralysis in the bond space, 4.28% on
the 10-year
>> [music]
>> after a pretty tepid auction yesterday.
And all that really has to come down to
the price of crude. When you take a look
at the June contracts of both Brent and
WTI, both up more than 4%, but still
below $100 a barrel, 98.59 on Brent
[music] crude, and for WTI, $91.46.
Coming up this hour, Bob Michael of
JPMorgan Asset Management with crude
heading back toward $100, former Deputy
National Security Advisor Victoria
Coates with the Iran ceasefire under
threat, and Ted Mortensen of Baird as
investors tap the brakes on the tech
rally. We begin this hour with stocks
sliding and crude climbing once again,
more cracks appearing in that fragile
Iran ceasefire. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now from Washington,
D.C. Tyler, what's the latest?
Yeah, Haley, so good morning. Well, this
White House says that the diplomatic
process is continuing as the US confirms
that direct talks will be held with Iran
this weekend being led by Vice President
J.D. Vance. And although reporting from
the region indicates that Iran's attacks
against Gulf state energy sites have
appeared to decrease overnight. At this
point, the ceasefire is still very
tenuous, and that is partly because Iran
is demanding that Israel stop its
attacks in Lebanon even as the US says
that Israel's separate front against the
Iranian-backed militant group Hezbollah
was never part of any deal, and
President Trump downplays that it could
derail the diplomatic process. Fact,
Vice President J.D. Vance did say
yesterday that Israel has, quote,
offered to check themselves a little bit
when it comes to Lebanon in a bid to
help grease the skids when it comes to
the negotiation process as Israel
confirmed yesterday that it had
conducted its single largest day of
strikes against the militant group. Now,
President Trump did reiterate in this
post yesterday on Truth Social that the
US stands ready to redeploy and resume
military operations if Iran does not
adhere to the ceasefire and until a full
agreement is in place, putting that
emphasis on the need for the Strait of
Hormuz to reopen because as Anne Marie
just mentioned, the data analyzed by
Bloomberg News shows that only about
three vessels
left the waterway yesterday amid what is
an 800-vessel backlog. Now, Lisa,
yesterday President Trump did meet
privately with the NATO Secretary
General Mark Rutte, and a person
familiar tells Bloomberg News that he
demanded that European allies put
forward tangible plans to the US on how
they intend to help open the critical
waterway in the next few days. Tyler
Kendall, thank you so much for that.
We'll be catching up with you throughout
the day. Here's a view from Wall Street
this morning. Bob Michael of JPMorgan
Asset Management writing, "The market is
starting to unwind the tail risk
associated with the global economy that
would have to live with oil above $100
for a protracted period." Bob joins us
now in our New York studios, which is a
wonderful thing. Bob, great to see you.
Happy to be here. Do you think that it's
appropriate to remove some of the wagers
on oil being below $100 a barrel for a
protracted period of time?
Um, well, that's a complicated question.
I think the best answer is we can live
with oil $100 a barrel for a while. I
think what the administration has done a
good job of doing to us over the last
year plus is to train us, and we look
for signs of when is the rhetoric at a
high, but they're starting to look for
an exit. And we're starting to see that
now, and I think that's why the markets
are so optimistic. If we go back to
tariffs, if we think about Greenland, if
we think about Venezuela, at some point,
the rhetoric is very high, but the
administration finds an off-ramp and
exits, and I challenge you to tell me
that all three of those things have been
buttoned up. They're all still going on
in the background, and it feels like
we're on the same kind of off-ramp here.
That's pretty good for the markets. So,
yesterday we saw people have faith in
the idea that the escalation rhetoric at
least had peaked, and we at least are
coming to that off-ramp. It's almost
exactly following the time frame of
Liberation Day last year. I'm just
wondering whether you think it's viable
in an ongoing fashion even during some
of the question marks around how durable
the ceasefire really is. So, we do
because there's been significant
repricing across markets, especially in
the bond market. Investors are caught a
little bit offside for an actual
off-ramp. I don't know that you need a
ceasefire for the entire 2-week period.
You probably need one for the back half
of the next 48 hours. Enough time for
everyone to meet in Islamabad and to
iron out details of what an off-ramp
could look like, and then I think over
the next month, we're going to see this
in the distant rearview mirror even if
oil stays at $100 a barrel because it's
going to take time to get the fiscal oil
to where it's needed.
>> So, you think these Islamabad talks are
real and credible?
I think they are. I think they're
essential for the administration if
they're genuinely looking for an
off-ramp. It sounds like for the last 3
weeks, they've been looking for that. I
feel Vance is on his way there. Um, the
Israelis will be there, and something
will come out of them. But when it comes
to this
gap between the Iranians and the United
States, they don't agree on anything
right now.
Right. Everyone It's It's classic
bargaining. You want this, somebody else
wants that, you'll find a way to meet in
the middle. There are lots of things
that the US can do. Yesterday, I
listened to General Keane. He declared
victory. You listened to Vance. He
declared victory. They've already
started the process of saying, "Look,
the primary mission was to mitigate a
nuclear threat. We've done that. We'd
like the strait open. We'll see if we
can get to that. If not, we supply
enough of our own oil, we'll just move
on." So, with fixed income, what does
buy the dip mean? Because we've seen
that certainly in credit with
investment-grade credit spreads moving
down below at one point where they were
during right before the war took place.
We just heard earlier this morning Keith
Lerner talking about how he went
wholesale into high-yield bonds because
he sees opportunity now. Is it more the
credit risk side or is it more the
government bond side with expectations
that inflation will ultimately continue
on its downward path?
It's everything. It's just an acceptance
that investors are under-allocated to
fixed income. Equities have bubbled
higher for them over the years. They've
allocated a lot to alternatives. They're
looking for opportunities to get into
fixed income. I've been in Houston for
the last couple days meeting with
clients. They don't want to miss this
backup in yields. They want to get into
the bond market. It starts with where is
fair value. I think the Fed is in
hibernation mode. I like that. I like a
3 and 5/8% Fed funds rate. It's solid.
It leaves it at about zero on a real
basis if you deflate it by headline
inflation. That's okay. It also leaves
yield in the bond market. The 2-year
should be within touching distance of
that. It's probably about 10, 15, 20
basis points too high, and the 10-year
we think with a 3 and 5/8% Fed funds
rate, either side of 4%. You're a little
bit over 4 and a quarter. That looks
okay. And Keith is right, credit spreads
are attractive. All the problem credits
had financed themselves in the private
credit market. Is that a separate
problem? Is that all part of the same
credit problem? We'll see over the next
18 months. But for now, the bond market
looks pretty good. It held in
phenomenally well over the last 6 weeks,
and investors don't want to miss this
opportunity the way they did last year
with Liberation Day.
>> Well, neither do companies, right? And
we're seeing a rash of bond deals coming
to market, a lot of issuance. We saw the
most issuance ever globally for
corporates in March, and now it seems
like anytime there's a window, everyone
wants to come out.
>> it gone well? It has gone incredibly
well, and all of the debt sales have
been oversubscribed to them.
>> you? Well, exactly.
>> there's money there. It tells you that
we in the bond market look at corporate
earnings, we look at profitability, we
look at leverage, and we're okay. Given
that, isn't there a dissonance between
the belief that inflation will go down
over time while also seeing the animal
spirits come back to markets with so
much money still available and people
looking through even $100 a barrel in
terms of oil prices saying consumers can
withstand that. Listening to Ed Bastian
over at Delta, we're optimistic. We're
seeing customers absorb the higher
prices. I mean, can't you bake in higher
inflation? Doesn't have to be one or the
other animal spirits or potentially a
bid into duration? Well, I think we've
crossed that divide. I think we in the
markets accept that a 2% inflation
target is a myth. We haven't been there
in half a decade. It didn't feel
comfortable when we tried to get there
and we were printing 1.7, 1.8. It's too
low for an economy the size and
complexity of the US. 2 and 1/2 feels
like the new 2% and we're a little bit
above that um because we've got
transitory inflation because of the
energy shock. That too may or may not
fade. But, I look at our analysis. I
read Mike Feroli's stuff a lot. Even
with where energy is and the
probabilities of this being extended,
we've got inflation if you look at
headline and core between 3 and 1/2 and
3% for this year. But, we have real GDP
at about 2 and 1/4%. So, what we're
saying is this economy can absorb higher
inflation than 2% even inflation around
3% and the Fed probably doesn't do
anything because they went into the last
meeting still a little bit concerned
about the labor market. Now, they're
probably more balanced. So, they're
going to sit on their hands. Michael,
you're going
to be sticking with us JP Morgan Asset
Management. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is The White House saying
Vice President J.D. Vance will lead
direct talks with Iran and Pakistan.
[music] Vance will be joined by special
envoy Steve Wozniak off and Jared
Kushner. The first round of talks is set
for Saturday morning local time.
President Trump lashing out at NATO
after a meeting with the Secretary
General Mark Rutte in a post on Truth
Social Trump writing quotes, "NATO
wasn't there when we needed them and
they won't be there if we need them
again." Rutte saying he and Trump had a
frank and open discussion.
And the US is considering lifting
sanctions on Venezuela's Central Bank to
facilitate the flow of billions of
dollars into the country's economy.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
move would allow proceeds
>> [music]
>> from oil sales to circulate more freely
through Venezuela's financial system.
That's your Bloomberg brief, [music]
Lisa. Thank you so much, Yahaira. Up
next, pushing for peace.
We have a negotiation that's supposed to
start this weekend. We're going to see
if we can make more progress here in the
days to come. I'm optimistic that the
Iranians are going to be smart, that
they're going to negotiate in good
faith. Former [music] Deputy National
Security Advisor Victoria Coates joins
next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Yesterday's solid risk on feel turning
[music] to just a sense of skepticism
right now in markets. Futures lower as
we head toward this the opening bell.
4/10 of a percent decline on the S&P.
Yields a bit bid just a bit at 3.78%
[music]
on the US 2-year. Dollar fading just a
touch continuing the slide that it saw
yesterday and Brent crude solidly above
$98.62
when we're looking at the Brent June
contract up 4% under surveillance this
morning pushing for peace.
We think thankfully at this point I
think have a ceasefire thanks to the
leadership of the President of the
United States. We have the Iranians
promising to open the Straits of Hormuz
and we have a negotiation that's
supposed to start this weekend. That's
the truth. I think it's a good first
step. We're going to see if we can make
more progress here in the days to come.
I'm optimistic that the Iranians are
going to be smart, that they're going to
negotiate in good faith. Here's the
latest. [music] Vice President Vance
gearing up to lead direct talks with
Iran on Saturday with fighting in the
Middle East threatening to derail an
already fragile ceasefire. Former Deputy
National Security Advisor Victoria
Coates writing the odds of Iran sticking
for the full 2 weeks is pretty small in
my book. Victoria joins us now.
Victoria, thank you so much for being
with us. So, what are you gleaning so
far from a pretty uneasy ceasefire if
you could even call it that for 24 hours
beset by attacks and a lot of arguments
between both sides.
Yes, this is this is a pretty dicey
period and that this is is standard for
this kind of arrangement. If you think
back to the Gaza Gaza war, the early
ceasefires were extremely delicate.
There was a lot of pushing at the edges
by both sides and it took a long time to
get to a durable deal under President
Trump last fall. So, I think we're going
to see a similar kind of jockeying for
position here. But, the interesting
thing here is that that the Iranians
really don't have any cards beside the
Strait of Hormuz. And one thing I've
noticed is that it's going to be a
declining asset for them because the
entire region is talking about ways
going forward they can circumvent the
the Strait. So, Iran's going to try to
play that card as hard as they can right
now, get as much as they can out of it.
But, I think their ability to do that
going forward is going to be quite
limited. Victoria, when it comes to the
Strait being open as normal but with
these strings attached, the Iranians
basically making sure you have to have a
payment whether it's yuan or Bitcoin,
would that be a success for the United
States? Yes, there would be more of
uptick of vessels, but that means Iran
fully controls this key waterway.
No, I think that's absolutely what we're
going to be working on going forward and
what you're seeing the Iranians do is
essentially a
function like a mafia
group. They're trying to shake down the
the rest of the world to get energy out
of the Gulf. And so, yes, they are
demanding crypto
crypto payments which is kind of
comical. And but as I said before, I
think their ability to do that long-term
is not going to be there for them. And
the other thing it shows us is that they
are desperate for money at this point.
They their economy is absolutely on the
rocks and they've shut down their
internet for now 35, 36 days. So,
nobody's done that before and I don't
think anyone's really forecasted the
kind of damage that that's done to that
economy and what happens when they open
it back up. What are the Iranians going
to do when suddenly, you know, the ATMs
are full again, that kind of thing. It's
really a very difficult situation for
them. So, I think they're thinking very
short-term right now. They're just
thinking how do we get cash out of the
Strait of Hormuz so we can survive
another day. This is still leverage that
they hold. How do you think they're
going to use this at the negotiating
table on Saturday? What would be
acceptable to the United States?
Well, that's that's the thing is this is
all they have. That that this is their
leverage. Otherwise, their their ability
to inflict harm on the United States,
their neighbors, on Israel is getting
more and more limited. That's what was
really the point of Operation Epic Fury
was to degrade their ability to inflict
that harm and also their ability to
reconstitute it. And the Secretary of
War and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
yesterday laid out a very detailed case
about how that ability to reconstitute
their missiles to restart their nuclear
program had really been destroyed. So,
so all they really have is the Strait
right now and as I said that's a
declining asset for them. So, they don't
have a lot of cards and I think that's
the the point that the Vice President
and the special envoys will be making to
them.
Victoria, can a post-weekend off-ramp
for the administration include leaving
the Strait of Hormuz in control of the
Iranians if they accept US dollars and
some conditions about how the funds are
used?
In terms of accepting US dollars and
Only as tolls, yes. As as tolls. I mean,
that is certainly something although I
actually would prefer them not to have
dollars. I think the economic leverage
is the other really strong point the
Vice President's going to have in his
pocket. You know, the the Iranians can't
restart their economy without broad
sanctions relief. I mean, that's just
not going to happen. I don't see China
doing anything material to help them
economically and they've alienated
countries like Qatar who might have been
willing to help them in the past past
and I think it's notable that Qatar went
to the United Nations yesterday and said
they want to hold the Iranians
economically liable for the damage that
was done to their oil field during the
war. Very interesting development there.
So, I would prefer not to give them
dollars. That's that's a nice hard
currency for them. So, I don't I
wouldn't really see that as a as a give
point for Iran. Victoria, it was sort of
interesting to me that Bob brought that
up because a lot of people are talking
about China maybe coming closer to Iran
and the petrodollar becoming the
petroyuan. This idea that they could
enter into the primary relationship
considering their role as the major
buyer right now from the Middle East. Do
you think that that is exaggerated and
that frankly Iran has no friends and
that there isn't necessarily any push
toward China in that kind of material
way?
Well, that's what it has been for the
last 5, 6 years that China has been the
primary buyer. They've bought in yuan
and then or the Iranians can use that
currency to buy things from the Chinese.
So, it sets up a nice little loop for
China and that has been the case. It
hasn't made a lot of people in
Washington happy, but it's not that that
great of a threat to us cuz I don't see
anybody else. I don't see the Saudis or
the Kuwaitis or the Emirates or the
Qataris particularly interested in
taking you on for their product. So, if
it's just Iran
and that that that that that loop is
keeping Iran out largely of the broader
global economy, that doesn't make me all
that unhappy. Victoria Coates, former
Deputy National Security Advisor, thank
you so much for being with us. Bob, this
to me is one of the key questions,
right? How much do we start to see other
currencies replace the dollar and sort
of the end of the petrodollar regime
that began in 1974
and has lost a little bit of cloud. I do
think there is room for the
administration to leave the straight in
control of the Iranians if they accept
only dollars and there's some
methodology for how the dollars are
distributed, what are they used for in
Iran and do they go to Qatar to help
rebuild some of the fields. Um, I expect
that to be part of the off-ramp
discussion.
>> To do that though, the United States
would have to lift their own sanctions
on Iran. Iran right now has no access to
the Swift banking system. You can't
actually transact in dollars in the
country unless you have physical hard
cash, which a lot of Iranians like to
hold on to. So, it'd have to go to some
sort of escrow account for humanitarian
aid, is that what you're thinking?
Come on, AMH. We've had this
administration for over a year.
Everything's on the table. Everything
can be recrafted. So, I have confidence
that the details will be worked out over
time or like everything else that we've
seen with tariffs, with Greenland, with
Venezuela, they won't be worked out yet,
but they'll be in the rearview mirror. I
think one of the big questions a lot of
people have and something I keep hearing
is who is doing the negotiating in Iran?
It seems like there're conflicting
signals coming out of different parts
and it seems like there are attacks
coming out of different places. So, is
there enough of a cohesive regime to
actually come out with any kind of deal
that can actually be agreed upon? Well,
I think it was interesting when I think
it was the foreign minister or Mohammad
Qalibaf
actually released a statement for the
Supreme National Security Council
because in Iran it is a deliberative
body when they tried to speak and
everyone almost gets to vote. I believe
the individuals that would likely end up
showing up in Islamabad would be Qalibaf
and the foreign minister. But really at
the end of the day, it is this
deliberative body which has a lot of
IRGC influence and of course the
Ayatollah who we have not seen yet. How
much do you follow all of the different
iterations that come out every day, Bob?
And how much is it sort of a question
just buy bonds? Seems like there's a lot
of money out there and frankly, you
can't really trade off the headlines.
>> No, I follow it constantly. I'm
interested. I think AMH makes a good
point. Whoever shows up in Islamabad,
that's who you're dealing with. Yeah,
that's going to be what we're watching
over the weekend. Coming up, Ted
Mortenson is going to be joining of
Baird as a tech rally stalls out just a
touch. Plus Danny Burger comes on with
your morning movers. CoreWeave shares
jumping on an expanded AI deal with Meta
to Bob's point earlier. Lots of deals
getting done right now and lots of money
that are looking to put put get put to
work there. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
Coming to another day with a complete
shift in sentiment. Yesterday it was
very much risk on, almost a 3% rally in
the Nasdaq. Today fading that just a
touch with questions around what a
ceasefire means if people are still
throwing bombs at each other. Right now
we're seeing Nasdaq futures lower by
4/10 of a percent. Same on the S&P.
Russell 2000 seeing a more significant
decline at near session lows down 8/10
of a percent. A little bit of a bid into
bonds, kind of a complete [music]
stagnancy here as people understand the
dueling risks for the Federal Reserve.
Essentially flat 3.78% [music]
on the 2-year. 10-year yields 4.28% and
we have an auction coming up later today
at 1:00 p.m. of 30-year bonds and we
have 4.88% [music] rounded up on that.
And really the entire story has to do
with crude. Right now it is a crude
market and right now crude is inflicting
higher up more than 4% on both Brent,
$98.57
and WTI, the June contract $91.50.
[music]
A real question here about what will
actually turn the tide a material way.
Bob Michael has been with us for the
hour and Bob, you've been saying
ultimately [music] oil above 100 is
actually okay as long as it remains
stable and as long as the economy can
keep chugging along. Yeah, I've been
saying that. We've asked our credit
analysts to [music] model corporate
profitability. We see a couple things.
One, revenues tend to come down a little
bit because there will be some demand
[music] destruction. Margins will come
in a little bit, but corporate
profitability is still there. You're not
in recession. You're not in desperate
times for corporate America. The US can
withstand [music] $100 oil. And Bastian
seems to agree and is raising prices. So
is Scott Kirby over at United and
frankly, [music] we might see more of
that with earning season coming up. It's
starting off in earnest next week. 2
hours away from the cash open. Here are
your morning movers with Danny Burger.
Danny. Hey Lisa, one thing that's
certainly not slowing down amid all of
the macro headlines [music]
is deals for AI. CoreWeave and Meta
reaching a new agreement in which Meta
would spend $21 billion with CoreWeave.
This adds to a 14 million already agreed
between the two of them.
This is around data centers. It's the
agreement's going to be spending from 20
from next year 2027 through to 2032.
[music]
Um, already Meta is building out its own
AI capabilities, but it needs more. It's
going to do so with CoreWeave that
houses Nvidia chips in its centers.
[music]
Elsewhere, some of the more macro
related news, Intel has been on an
absolute tear. Getting for the past six
straight sessions, it was the second
best performer in the S&P 500 yesterday
to close at a 5-year high. Some
individual things happening with Intel,
but also getting caught up in the
risk-on sentiment Just want to point out
that that is reversing with the market.
Not undoing everything it did yesterday,
but it's still down nearly 2%. Similar
story when it comes to the airlines.
They had a pretty big day yesterday too,
up at least 3%. In the case of United,
it was up closer to 7%.
That again comes in this morning as the
price of oil moves higher. All these
though still trading below their pre-war
levels, Lisa. [music] Thank you so much,
Danny. On our radar this morning, the
White House confirming direct talks with
Iran
are set for Sunday in Pakistan. Vice
President J.D. Vance leading a
high-level delegation which includes
Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner.
Meanwhile, crude heading back towards
$100 as the Strait of Hormuz remains
effectively closed as Tehran blocking
passage through critical waterway as
Israel continues strikes on Lebanon. And
finally, President Donald Trump
repeating his criticism of NATO during a
closed-door meeting with Secretary
General Mark Rutte. Rutte saying the
meeting was frank and open.
He is clearly disappointed and with many
NATO allies, but at the same time, I was
also able to point to the fact that the
large majority of European nations has
been helpful with basing, with
logistics, with overflights,
um, with making sure that they live up
to the commitments. A bit of a different
tone coming from the president posting
on Truth Social, quote, NATO wasn't
there when we needed them and they won't
be them there if we need them again.
Really going to the question, AMH,
whether you're going to end up with some
sort of withdrawal, wholesale
repudiation of NATO. We've seen that
rhetorically, but is there going to be
more of a move in that direction?
>> Well, rhetorically it's been on the
table and the press secretary even said
that this week that those conversations
are there. I think probably it's a
carrot and stick approach from this
administration cuz they want to see NATO
to step up more. We have reporting that
the president in the US is asking for
specific commitments from NATO countries
to help basically police the Strait of
Hormuz. And I think one thing to take
into account is we can't be naive to
think that this was a free and open
waterway. It's been free and open
because the US Navy and Fifth Fleet has
been there for years making sure that it
was a free and open waterway. And I
think potentially given the volatility
between Tehran and Washington, the US is
saying, well, if we can't make sure it's
going to be safe, then European
countries need to step in.
Um, there are a lot of things to worry
about right now, but NATO is the one I
worry about the
most. I think it's sacrosanct that NATO
and the Western alliance remain intact.
And yes, there could be little squabbles
here and there, but it absolutely cannot
come apart. So, that's a priority for in
my view above all of your seat and what
you're looking at? Because it creates
stability across the Western world. It
helps to create global stability. The
last thing you want is any fragmentation
of that. I think it's okay to have a
little family squabble, but then come to
some sort of agreement going forward,
but I think this is a sacrosanct
alliance. I'd forgotten that Greenland
was still on the table, but evidently it
was. So, it sort of highlights all the
issues that are percolating out there.
>> ice I think is what the president called
it yesterday. I would love to visit that
big pile of ice. I can just say Iceland
was fantastic.
>> Turning back to Wall Street. Stock
futures turning negative after
Wednesday's global relief rally. The
tech-heavy Nasdaq on track to snap a
6-day winning streak. Ted Mortenson,
Managing Director of Baird, saying the
AI trade is under the microscope and Ted
joins us now for more. Ted is someone
who I am so looking forward to speaking
to because you have had experience in
the military. You have had experience of
what it's like on the ground while also
analyzing tech companies. Before we get
into the tech trade, can you just give
us a sense of how much we're learning
about technology and war during this
period right now? Well, thanks, Lisa. I
think the whole technology background is
changing and I think we're now entering
the world of AI. I mean, if you look at
what Palantir is
involved in not only in the US
government and CENTCOM in Tampa
with Admiral Cooper, but
you know, the Israelis are also using
it. So, I think you're seeing the first
cleansing of AI in a in a war footing
and the results speak for themselves. I
mean, 30 days you basically decapitated
a country. So, when you say cleansing,
what does that mean? I mean, in terms of
the AI investments and not to putting
aside the geopolitical moment and
putting aside the actual war itself, how
is technology being deployed and how are
we seeing who the winners and losers are
going to be going forward not just in a
military sense, but just in an all in AI
sense as a result? Well, so if you look
at AI, AI is not only economic, but it's
also military. So, talking about NATO,
they got to get going on AI. They have
to do they they're going to have to do
these these sovereign fabs to understand
it. The US is so far ahead along with
China and this is how war is going to be
waged in the future. So, if if I had to
say what stage we are in a baseball
game, we're not even in the first inning
yet. Um the the amount of AI that's
being embedded in technology into weapon
systems is in its infancy. So, we are
just starting. Look what Anduril, look
what a lot of the defense companies are
doing. They're they're embedding that
technology in the next generation
weapons that we have not seen yet.
So, we're just at the cusp of it, but I
think if you look at the performance, it
works. Shyam Sankar Palantir did say
that this is the first war where it's
going to be basically AI driven. When
you talk about AI and weapons, do you
mean autonomous weapons?
>> So, picture, you know, the F-35 that was
developed, the new fighter that the Navy
and the Air Force are using. It's like a
player coach on the battlefield. I mean,
it allows you to take an immense amount
of data for the pilot and actually be
that coordinator in the air. Now, we're
going to see in the future, you're going
to see drones from Anduril on both sides
of the wing. And this is a change in
military tactics where you're going to
you're going to send stealth drones into
the battle instead of in my era where
you had to fly down the streets of
Baghdad, it's a little bit different.
You're putting the pilot at risk. Now,
with advanced targeting and these
advanced stealth drones,
pilot will not be at risk as much as he
has been and the targeting that you're
seeing in Iran will be much more
prevalent.
>> Well, are there mistakes though because
the administration did go after a school
accidentally?
>> Well, I think you know,
we can go into that. I mean, there's
always a human. There's always going to
be a general and an admiral and a whole
bunch of staff that's going to be
cleansing this data and they're
ultimately going to make the decision.
It's not AI's driving the
AI is a tool, I would say at this point.
Ted, how far away are we from a tool
that shoots down drones or intercepts
drones? It's it's in development. A lot
of the the tech companies that actually
I'm covering right now,
we're just on the cusp of that on high
energy.
You're seeing the Navy deploy lasers
right now. You're seeing the Israeli
government, you know, on Iron Dome. Now,
they have lasers that you're not seeing
obviously in the press because they
don't want you to see it. Um that's
number one. Number two, the ability of
doing high energy systems, basically
you're frying the components of an
Iranian drone. It just basically falls
out of the sky. Now, are we there yet?
No, this takes time. But
uh thank God you're American because
this is on the drawing board and it's
going full bore.
So, it feels almost
trite or or perhaps insensitive to say,
well, what's the trade given the fact
that we're talking about life and death
and war and all of these issues. At the
same time, is there a tell with respect
to which technologies and which
companies are getting ahead during this
period militarily and that they will be
winners down the line when it comes to
commercial uses? In other words, are you
seeing winners and losers in the AI
space more broadly for the economy shake
out right now?
It's a fantastic question and let's just
boil it down to more a little bit of
simplicity. Uh if you look at the um
conflicts that we have been in in the
last year, we have used a tremendous
amount of weaponry. So, advanced over
the over the horizon targeting, those
those weapons don't grow on trees, okay?
The other thing is when you're having a
30-day pace of a conflict like this,
you're depleting your stocks, right? So,
when I talk to my portfolio managers, we
are getting people over those defense
names because if you look at the the
president's budget of 1.5 trillion on
the defense budget,
the procurement of weapon systems is up
triple digit off that. So, we have 3 to
4 years of 25, 30% growth for some of
these companies in that defense chain,
the silicon chain.
Um the next generation like the Kratos
or the AVAVs or when I hope Anduril
comes public because it's a fascinating
company. Um
all of those next generation systems
have to be rebuilt and it's going to
take years. So, do you think that right
now people are not bullish enough on a
lot of these technology names even as
they turn into a safe haven? You have to
be in the weeds to pick these names up.
So, you have to do this full-time and
you have to listen to 70-plus conference
calls during an earning season and you
got to pull it together because it's not
going to hit you in the face. Quad can't
do it evidently. Not not yet. [laughter]
Ted Mortensen, thank you so much for
being here. Ted Mortensen of Baird. And
this is the reason why you see the
exuberance. This is the reason why you
see CoreWeave coming out with yet
another issuance. This is the reason why
you've got so many deals because of the
optimism of how this is going to
transform what we're going to see down
the pipe.
>> Well, everything Ted's talking about,
you need capital to keep developing, to
roll out, to test and it doesn't work
perfectly maybe the first time, but down
the road it will. Unless you're part of
financing these things, you're going to
be left behind as well. And that's what
a lot of people keep saying as they pour
money into a lot of these offerings,
into a lot of these deals. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here's your
Bloomberg Brief with Yahaira On Yahaira.
Hi, Lisa. Iranian officials say Israel's
strikes on Lebanon violate the terms of
the ceasefire agreement. [music] Israel
launched its largest assault on Lebanon
yesterday since the start of the war.
The country's health ministry saying at
least 182 people were killed and
hundreds were wounded.
And in markets, shares of CoreWeave are
rising 2.3% [music]
following the announcement it's
expanding its AI infrastructure pact
with Meta. A new $21 billion commitment
to CoreWeave comes on top of a prior $14
[music] billion commitment. The new
spending will run between 2027 and 2032
as Meta is aiming to boost its [music]
own AI infrastructure.
And Ecuador's President Daniel Noboa
telling our own Anne Marie Hordern he
would welcome US troops to help confront
the security crisis
>> [music]
>> in his nation.
What I focus on is the willingness of
this US government to finally go after
narco-terrorists in our region. Maybe
the form
is not ideal,
but the true intention and the plan, I
think it's a good one.
Noboa says a US troop deployment could
happen as early as this year. That's
your Bloomberg Brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Yahaira. Was it fun
down there in Ecuador? It was
interesting. It used to be one of the
most peaceful countries in the world and
now it's [music] rated one of the most
violent because of the transnational
gangs and he's going after them with an
iron fist
>> [music]
>> and he already we're seeing US joint
military uh
cooperation and he's asking for even
more and would welcome US troops on the
ground. Here I was thought thinking that
you went to the Galapagos Islands to,
you know,
>> Not No.
>> Darwin? Yeah, not that
Up next, staying in power staying power
in stocks.
This is a a sigh of relief that we do
think it has some staying power. The
bull market that started in October of
2022 has [music] further to go. Jill
Carey Hall of Bank of America joins
next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> Seeing a bit of a retracement from
yesterday's optimism, futures lower, but
not necessarily taking back all of
yesterday's [music] gains down just a
quarter of a percent for S&P futures. A
bid into the two-year yield down a basis
point to 3.77%. [music]
The dollar losing just a touch weakening
to 98 on the DXY index and Brent up
[music] 3% to $97.76.
Under surveillance this morning, staying
power in stocks.
This is a a sigh of relief that we do
think it has some staying power, but
again, as as we've been saying, the
devil will be in the details over the
next several weeks. We continue to be
believers [music] in in the US in terms
of its capital markets and and the
risk-reward opportunities. The bull
market that started [music] in October
of 2022 has further to go. Here's the
latest. Stocks falling on concerns about
a fragile US-Iran ceasefire. [music]
However, small caps outperforming
year-to-date despite the headlines
whipsawing markets. Jill Carey Hall of
Bank of America writing, "If a prolonged
conflict raises stagflation risks, small
caps have typically held up better than
small than large caps." I'm I'm kind of
stumbling over this because this is very
hard for me to understand. Joe joins us
now. Please explain because clearly it
doesn't really seem like a logical
threat that stagflation means good
things for small caps.
>> Right. I mean it doesn't typically mean
good things for equities. Historically
equities have underperformed most other
asset classes during stagflationary
backdrops, but if those stagflationary
risks continue to to perculate, we've
typically seen that small caps have held
up better than large caps. I mean right
now they have more exposure to uh to
industries that are, you know,
positively levered higher oil prices
like energy and and parts of industrials
than industries that are hurt by higher
oil prices like consumer. Um so, you
know, we've seen earnings estimates
rising, uh you know, since the start of
the conflict. And that's been true in
mid and large caps as well. Um so, we've
actually seen earnings hold up well and
you know, small caps have actually
tended to hold up well in environments
like when we looked at the the '70s and
the '80s. So, it is a you know, it's
stagflation isn't good for equities, but
small caps have tended to hold up
better. We got to watch rate cuts uh or
potential for rate cuts though since
small caps have obviously been very
sensitive to the Fed.
>> Well, that's exactly where I was going
to go. Ultimately, uh small caps have
traded pretty much in tandem with Fed
expectations. And now the longer
stagflation risks remain on the table,
the more the Fed's not going to be doing
anything. So, how is that going to be
helpful? Can small caps continue to
perform if the Fed doesn't cut rates
further? Right. I mean I think you get
some offset from the benefits that we we
see from, you know, higher oil
benefiting earnings from, you know,
going into this we started to finally
see a manufacturing recovery and
earnings recovery. Um so, there have
been some some positives and and GDP
growth is holding up well. Now, if we
are on the the brink of Fed hikes, then
I think that becomes much more
problematic for small caps. Um you know,
right now we've started to we had seen
rate cuts start to get priced out.
priced in after the last day or two, but
um you know, I I think the hikes still
seem a long way off uh according to our
economist at BofA. So, that's something
that we're we're watching closely. The
the Russell has been very tethered to to
rate expectations a little bit less so
in in recent months especially as that
earnings and manufacturing recovery has
taken hold. So, we would definitely
stick with less levered small caps, you
know, stocks that don't have that
refinancing risk. So, I do think you
need to be selective within the size
segment given those risks.
Well, not optimal. Does your work tell
you that corporate America can survive
at a $100 oil for several quarters, or
does that just create too much pressure
on their profitability? Right. Well, you
know, our base case is that, you know,
we see this uh resolve within the next
several weeks, two to four weeks. And,
you know, oil prices it it depends how
long they're above $100 a barrel because
then if that conflict extends into, you
know, the full second quarter, then that
becomes more risky to to growth. And
usually the the rise in oil prices tends
to hurt consumption with like a three to
four quarter lag. Um so, there is risk
the longer this plays out then that has
a lagged impact on on hurting
consumption later in the year. Um
corporates have been pretty resilient
and energy costs are relatively small
proportion of companies' operating
costs. So, overall, you know, corporates
have seen upward estimate revisions
during this conflict. Um but but
certainly keeping in mind the impacts to
the consumer, the if this plays out
longer and oil does stay above that $100
a barrel level. If the Fed doesn't cut
rates this year, but the corporate bond
market remains open for financing, is
that enough of an offset for you?
I think, you know, like I said, we we
are still looking for for two Fed cuts
this year. Our economists are expecting
they're now occurring a bit later in the
year, so starting in in September rather
than over the summer. Um you know, so I
I think there's there's a little room,
but even if rate cuts get priced out, um
as long as we're not seeing hikes and
the economy is holding up, we're seeing
manufacturing continue to recover, we're
seeing profits continue to to surprise
to the upside. Um you know, that does
provide some amount of an offset. Uh
but I think, you know, we every 25 basis
points that the Fed cuts rates is a few
percentage points on small cap earnings
given those refinancing risks. So again,
you know, I think we one needs to be
more selective within small caps. Our
analysts at BofA cover about a
a thousand small and mid cap companies.
There's a lot of options out there
rather than just owning the Russell 2000
um to to be able to identify, okay, who
has more exposure to manufacturing
recovery, to CapEx in the US. Small caps
tend to be CapEx beneficiaries. And who
doesn't have that leverage and
refinancing risk. Jill Carey Hall, thank
you so much for being with us this
morning. Jill Carey Hall of Bank of
America. We are looking at what the
ceasefire actually looks like, whether
it can stay. Some commentary coming from
Iran, AMH saying that they will not
abandon the Lebanese. Right. So, I think
when it comes to Lebanon, this could be
a stumbling block for Saturday. So, you
have two statements coming from the
president, Masoud Pezeshkian, saying
that Israel's renewed incursion to
Lebanon is a blatant violation of what
they believed was the original ceasefire
agreement. And then the speaker of the
parliament, um who potentially is this
individual that might be one of the
individuals that goes to Islamabad, uh
Ghalibaf, he is saying Lebanon, the
entire resistant access as Iran's
allies, form an inseparable part of the
ceasefire. So, they are making Lebanon a
condition to the ceasefire, which is why
I think it's going to be a long road
until those talks on Saturday morning.
>> Pretty much every commodity strategist
and geopolitical analyst says the same
thing, Bob. I would love your thoughts
on what your compass is on days like
this, which seems to be like every day.
Uh and there's a lot of headline risk.
What's your compass to figure out
exactly what is prudent investing?
Um we think about valuations across
markets. And for fixed income with the
back up in yields, um that's the first
sign that we should be looking to add.
We didn't think about our credit risk
and what corporate profitability looks
like. And for us, it seems to be holding
up well as long as we don't see a
significant escalation from here. It
feels like with an administration
looking for an off-ramp, we have to
watch the weekend talks. We'll see what
comes out of that, but we've seen this
movie before over the last year,
actually several times. So, we shouldn't
dismiss that an off-ramp is impossible
given what everyone's asking for today.
Um we've seen that things can be
negotiated and the administration can
move on to other things. So, right now,
we like the bond market in here. Bob
Michael, thank you so much for being
with us for the entire hour. Bob Michael
of JP Morgan Asset Management. Coming up
in the next hour, Jim Bianco of Bianco
Research, Tom Fitzwilliam of TD Cowen,
Nela Richardson of ADP, and Michelle
Weaver of Morgan Stanley as we get key
economic data coming out, jobless claims
and core PCE. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
We're just sort of back to the narrative
really of the last 12 months. There's so
much complacency in the market.
>> This can really overshoot to the upside.
>> It doesn't reduce market volatility, it
actually increases it.
>> Volatility is higher. We have to learn
to live with it. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan [music]
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Annmarie
Hordern. Feeling more and more like a
group therapy session. Live from New
York. Welcome back to the third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance. Traders curbing
their enthusiasm about the ceasefire
agreement [music] in the Middle East.
Futures dipping, oil rising, ships still
struggling to get through the Strait of
Hormuz. 30 minutes until key economic
data points that are coming out, jobless
claims, personal [music] income,
personal spending, core PCE. How much
can we actually glean, AMH, about what
the economic ramifications are from this
conflict? [music]
>> Well, potentially we'll get some of that
in the data, but does it really matter
when all eyes are on Saturday and
whether or not these ceasefire talks
become really credible [music] and do we
get clarity following them? Given the
fact that just moments ago we've had two
leaders in Iran, the president [music]
and the head of the parliament,
basically saying the situation in
Lebanon is not toned down and curtailed,
then
>> [music]
>> these ceasefire talks are meaningless.
So, I think that's a key risk right now.
And I feel like the market reacted so
heavily [music] on this idea of an
off-ramp and a ceasefire. It is going to
be a very long road there. Which is
something that Helima Croft raised in
her note from RBC.
>> it's going to be.
>> Yeah, and how difficult it is to really
get any kind of new normal back on the
ground especially given that Iran does
not want to give up control over the
Strait of Hormuz. [music] A question
here about what's happening on the
ground with oil majors as well because
right now we're seeing [music] that yes,
on one hand they should benefit from all
of the increases in oil prices. On the
other hand, actual facilities have been
damaged in the region with a real
question of what it's going to cost to
rebuild.
>> this with Exxon and now we're seeing
with Chevron. [music] Chevron is saying
that production fell as much as 6% in
the first quarter due in part to what's
going on in Iran. And they pinpointed
[music] decline and reduced output to
the Persian Gulf region and Israel and
downtime in operations in Kazakhstan.
So, to your point, it's a double-edged
[music] sword for these major oil
companies. Yes, a higher oil price is
great for them, but it's not going to be
a windfall. They have a lot of money
they now need to reinvest [music] to
damaged facilities. Yeah, and Bob's
point, uh Bob Michael of JP Morgan, was
that even with oil prices at $100 a
barrel, [music] Jill Carey Hall making
the same point, a lot of US consumers
can keep spending. The US economy can
keep chugging along. It's relatively
resilient, which [music] is the reason
why people have been looking at how much
economic surprises have been inflecting
to the upside
>> [music]
>> and why we're seeing so much resilience
come through in the likes of Delta
earnings and others. Now we're on to
next week [music] where we get from the
banks kicking off into earning season
where we have to get some guidance from
companies that are navigating [music]
all this. And it's a really hard time to
guide. A lot of things we've heard today
has been no one really understands the
duration, potentially,
>> [music]
>> of when Iran would start to loosen their
hold on the Strait of Hormuz. The White
House said yesterday there's been an
uptick. There hasn't been one to four,
depending [music] on how you are
tracking it, vessels went through the
Strait of Hormuz. That is not an uptick.
Goldman Sachs today saying [music]
Brent crude is set to average if if
Brent crude is set to average $100
through 2026 [music]
if the Strait remains closed for another
month. How does a company do you start
to bake that in? Very challenging.
[music] Right now, markets are
relatively sanguine. Yesterday was a
huge risk on day. We saw a 2.8% gain in
the Nasdaq in particular. Today, just a
little bit lower, down a quarter of a
percent for S&P [music] futures, Nasdaq
down just about 10th of a percent.
Russell 2000 getting beaten up a little
bit more, down 6/10 of a percent. The
bond yield, the bond space yesterday was
relatively confusing [music] considering
that initially a bid into bonds, then a
pretty tepid 10-year auction today, a
bit
>> [music]
>> of a bid back into bonds, particularly
at the front of the yield curve, 3.77%
10-year yields, 4.28% [music]
later today at 1:00 p.m. we do get
auction of 30-year notes, 4.88% [music]
down just a touch ahead of that. And
really the entire space is dictated by
what's happening [music] in crude. The
June contracts for WTI and Brent both
below $100 a barrel, that's the good
news. The bad news is it's that both
[music] of those are up more than 3% on
the increasing tensions and questions
around the ceasefire. 97.89
on Brent. Coming up this hour, Jim
Bianco of Bianco [music] Research with
the relief rally stalling out. Tom
Fitzgerald of TD Cowen on the health of
the airline sector after Delta reported
earnings yesterday. Anila Richardson of
ADP breaking down the latest round of
economic data. We begin this hour with
stocks edging lower after a fragile
ceasefire between the US and Iran. Jim
Bianco of Bianco Research saying there
is permanent risk premium in markets
even if the ceasefire holds. Jim joins
us now for more. Jim, thank you so much
for being with us. Let's start there. Is
this market accepting a risk premium and
is it already baked in based on the fact
that we've seen a lot more volatility
and that this isn't going to be a
conflict that is easily solved?
No, I don't think it is. And I I've been
listening to your show for the last half
hour and the overwhelming consensus is
does this end in a couple days? Does
this end in a couple of weeks? Does this
end in a couple of months? Nowhere in
this conversation is what happened with
the Suez Canal in 1967. It closed for 8
years and the ships that were stuck were
permanently stuck, never to get out
again. That scenario is not on anybody's
radar right now. I'm not saying that
that's the scenario now. I'm just saying
that a protracted move a protracted move
is not on everybody's scenario. And
secondly, even if it is a short-term
move, the precedent has been set. You
can't go back to the low risk premiums
that we've had before this war started
because this could always flare up
again, either from Iran or another
country. So, I think we're going to have
to deal with higher risk premiums. But
what happens with Wall Street is we say
that, we got to deal with higher risk
premiums, but then we invest like we're
not investing or believing that there's
going to be higher risk premiums. Part
of that is because we're conditioned by
experience that there is an escalation
in rhetoric, then a de-escalation in
rhetoric, and then all of a sudden the
US economy keeps chugging along and oh
yeah, you've been left behind by this
flood of cash going into risk assets. I
mean, how much do you view the
asymmetric upside of risk assets over
the past couple of years as kind of
dimming any kind of risk off sentiment
or even ability, frankly, to have a dip?
Oh, absolutely. I mean, you know,
we've been fooled too many times
according to Wall Street, right? We were
supposed to panic after COVID. It was a
buying opportunity. We were supposed to
panic after 9% inflation. It was a
panic after the fail of Silicon Valley
Bank. It was a buying opportunity. And
we were supposed to panic after
Liberation Day and it was a buying
opportunity. So, Wall Street's figured
it out. I don't care what the news is,
it's a buying opportunity. And that
seems to be the way that they're
operating with this right now. I'm glad
you brought up the 1957 Suez Canal
crisis cuz actually, Jim, a source
mentioned to me that this to me last
night talking about how much what's
happening in the Strait of Hormuz could
be akin to that. If it were, where
should oil prices be trading today?
Well, if it is, what's the problem is is
that the the world consumes about 103
million barrels of oil a day. Now, based
on the estimates, we're getting about 90
million barrels a day or so thereabouts
right now. So, there's a shortage of
oil.
So, to put it very simply, somebody's
got to stop consuming 13 million barrels
of oil. Somebody's got to stop going to
the gas station and filling up their
car. Now, how do we do that? We raise
the price. And we raise the price until
we get 13 million barrels a day. I'm
talking globally now, of less
consumption. So, the price is going to
have to go up and it's going to have to
stay up because if the price goes down,
we're going to go right back to
demanding 103 million barrels a day when
we can't deliver that. Now, maybe over
time we could build some pipelines and
stuff to work around this problem, but
that's a process that's going to take
years, not going to take weeks. What
kind of price are you talking about? Bob
Michael was just on. He was saying how
the US can live and the US consumer
could basically live with $100 oil.
I think he's right that they we can.
We've seen that throughout the month of
March that $100 oil, maybe even slightly
above that, is not going to really
impair the US economy. Now,
Asian economies, Australia and
Philippines to be more specific, they're
going to be under enormous pressure
because they get more oil from the
Middle East than we do. But I think
we're we're probably going to have to
see much higher prices in order to pull
back if this is going to be protracted.
And we should find out in the next week
or two if this is going to be a lot more
protracted than Wall Street is basically
assuming.
At this point is the increase in oil
prices that you are preparing for
stagflationary, inflationary, or
deflationary?
I think it's more inflationary than
anything else. I think the key when
people talk about interest rates is
nominal GDP, real growth plus inflation.
If inflation goes up by more than real
growth is falling, and right now there's
very little signs real growth is falling
at all, then nominal GDP goes up,
interest rates should go up, and the Fed
shouldn't be leaning towards hiking
rates. And that's what we've seen on and
off over the last couple of weeks. If
real growth falls more than inflation
goes up and nominal growth falls, then
you can talk about lower rates. But
right now, I think what we're really
looking at is more inflation than we're
going to see a decline in the real
economy. We're going to get that
tomorrow with the estimates being 0.9 on
March CPI. That's a huge number. It's
going to push you over year well over 3%
and we're not going to really be seeing
any kind of commensurate pullback in the
real economy. So, that means higher
nominal growth and that means all things
equal probably drifting higher interest
rates. So, at what point do you see,
Jim, 10-year yields reflecting that? I
mean, this is something that people have
been watching and so far the increase
that we've seen in yield since the
beginning of the conflict has really
come from real yields. It has not come
from inflation expectations. How much
could you see that change over the next
couple of weeks?
Oh, I think it could change
substantially over the next couple of
weeks if there's a belief that this is
going to be much longer lasted. You're
right that the even though we were under
4% yields when the conflict started and
we're still at around 428, 430 right
now. So, rates have gone up. It's not
been because of an expectation of more
inflation because we got back to this
everybody thinks it's going to last
between days and weeks and a month at
the top and it's going to go away
because they've been burned every other
time they thought that something was a
little bit more permanent. But if this
one turns out to be a little bit more
permanent, I'm not talking about the war
being permanent. I'm talking about the
risk premium and the threat that the
Gulf faces, the threat to shipping, the
threat to oil production. That lasts
even if the shooting starts and we're
going to have to have higher premiums in
all of these markets, then I do think
you're going to see inflation
expectations kick in in interest rates
and they're going to move higher.
Jim, what's your best case? Do you think
that rate hikes are going to be back on
the table in the next couple of Fed
meetings?
There's a reasonable chance they will
and I don't think we should be afraid of
rate hikes. That just means that nominal
growth is strong.
That and there's nothing wrong with
nominal growth being strong even if it
is a little bit more skewed for
inflation. We've done a very good job of
changing the narrative that, you know,
up is bad and down is good with interest
rates no matter what under any
circumstance and that's not always true.
If you have a strong economy, higher
rates are not necessarily a bad thing
and I think we got to stop with this
phobia about that if interest rates go
up, everything falls apart. They may be
going up because things are getting
better. Jim Bianco of Bianco Research,
thank you so much for being with us. I
love that. We have to stop with the
phobia of higher rates because
ultimately it might be a good thing. Do
you think that he was talking to one
person in particular with that comment?
I don't know. A lot of people. It could
be a lot of people. All right now, let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning. Here is your Bloomberg
Brief with your higher on and Tiara. Hi,
Lisa. Iranian leadership casting doubts
on the status of the ceasefire. The
country's president posting on X that
Israeli strikes in Lebanon are a
flagrant violation of the terms [music]
of the deal and will render negotiations
meaningless. The comments coming ahead
of planned peace talks in Pakistan
[music]
this weekend.
FBI Director Kash Patel saying a former
employee of the US military has been
arrested for leaking classified
information to the media. The arrest
coming just 2 days after President Trump
threatened
>> [music]
>> criminal charges for journalists who
published details of a military
operation to rescue two US airmen in
Iran.
And Amazon CEO Andy Jassy issuing his
annual shareholder letter this morning.
Jassy highlighting the yearly revenue
run rate for its chips [music] business
now exceeding $20 billion. The Amazon
CEO [music] saying, quote, "Having our
own hotly demanded AI chip opens up many
possibilities, but her perhaps none
larger than the ability to lower costs
for customers." That's your Bloomberg
brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Yohaira. Up next, the
morning calls. Plus,
>> [music]
>> Tom Fitz- Tom Tom Fitzgerald of TD Cowen
on the health of the airline sector.
That's coming up next. [music] This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
There's still a lot of skepticism that
we'll see any of this oil flow anytime
in the near future. It's all about the
differential between locations rather
than just the flat-out price, regardless
of whether ceasefire takes place. We're
we're in a new normal right right now
where the fundamentals are are
constantly shifting underneath our feet.
That was Stephen Schork of The Schork
Group. And the fundamentals keep
shifting this morning [music] as we get
competing headlines in markets. The way
that a lot of traders are dealing with
this is just taking [music] off a little
bit of that bullish sentiment that we
saw rip-roaring back into the market
yesterday, down about a quarter of a
percent for the S&P. The key point here
really is Brent.
>> [music]
>> The idea that it's higher again, and
that really does dictate whether it's
risk-on if it's lower or risk-off if
it's higher. Today, up 3.4% for the
Brent June contract, $97.96.
The real question here, we've heard from
the Iranians so far this morning, they
are putting Lebanon squarely in the
[music] ceasefire deal. At the same
time, that Israel overnight targeted a
number of different sites in that
country. Yeah, and I think this could be
a real stumbling block [music] as we
head towards these talks on Saturday.
And potentially, does it become such a
problem for the Iranians [music] that
maybe the talks don't happen? We're not
there yet, but that obviously could be a
risk as we go into this weekend. You
have [music] the president and the
speaker of the parliament both coming
out around the same time saying, "We are
not going to abandon the Lebanese." And
if this doesn't stop, then it [music]
renders the ceasefire meaningless. Yeah,
meanwhile, we are about 15 minutes 13
minutes now away from the core PCE data
as well as jobless claims. The real
question [music] here about how much we
start to see the increase in inflation
and real adjustment by individuals
heading into this
>> [music]
>> when it comes to spending. This is
really going to determine a lot of what
the Fed's response is. And frankly, the
administration, Kevin Hassett, the chief
economic advisor speaking just moments
ago in in the US media talking about how
they still expect pretty strong growth
in the United States and an end to this
conflict.
>> Yeah, really high growth. What, 4 5%?
[music] Very different from what we're
hearing from a lot of individuals. Also
interesting, he's talking about the fact
that pretty confident he thinks
>> [music]
>> Kevin Warsh is going to start by May
15th. Maybe he knows something we don't
know in terms of Senator Tom Tillis and
where he continuously stands [music] on
that debate.
>> Yeah, the discussion, the rhetoric
saying that the deal is still happening
is deal still on. [music]
As we do see whipsaw in oil prices,
we're seeing whipsaw in the shares of
airlines. Delta strong first quarter
along with hopes of a US-Iran ceasefire
fueling optimism for the airline
industry. Tom Fitzgerald of TD Cowen
raising his price target to $84 rating
Delta is moving quickly to reduce second
quarter capacity and offset higher fuel
via pricing. We view Delta as the most
defensive of the big six US airlines.
Tom joins us now for more. Tom, thank
you so much for being here. What did you
make of yesterday's Delta earnings?
I thought they were pretty encouraging.
You know, so far, they talked about
capacity being dependent on fuel and its
impact on on the economy and air travel
demand. And I think that's going to be
true for the equities and as long as
they're able to demonstrate revenue
recapture and that demand is powering
through this, I I think the stock can
can work. How much is this really an
issue of how much some of the big three,
or particularly Delta and United, have
focused on the premium customer, the
price-insensitive customer, that will
keep spending, that will keep flying?
That's a great question. Yeah, and we
you know, we don't we think the jury's
still out on how the how the rest of the
industry will will do. And in the
loyalty, the the higher-income consumer,
corporate demand, geographic diversity,
that's all part of the story here.
There's also a question of how they
arrange their flight patterns given the
fact that we have seen disruption in the
Middle East. How much do you expect any
ongoing changes? Delta, I believe, had a
route to the Middle East, a direct route
that they were expecting to roll out
later this year. Have we heard any intel
about how what the conflict is doing to
shake up some of those plans?
Yeah, I I think that's up in the air
right now. They pushed that off.
But then on conversely, you've had a lot
of passengers that usually, you know,
from Southeast Asia or Australia who'd
usually connect to Europe via the Gulf,
and some of those are now connecting via
the United States. So that's a benefit
for Delta and United as well. Lisa's
been talking about this for weeks, if
not months. And The Wall Street Journal
leading with it today, Delta's ace in
the hole is, of course, its own
refinery. Tom, how much is that helping
this company right now?
It is. It's a unique benefit. It's about
$300 in the in the second quarter, and
it will be driven by refining margins
from there. But yeah, I mean, it was it
was helpful in 2022, and it it it's
proven to be a
part of the durability story here. So do
you think when it comes to having their
own refinery as it compared to other
airlines, are they going to have to pay
less for jet fuel?
It's an offset. It was about a 6-cent
offset in the in the first quarter, and
that in the the second quarter benefit
translates out to about maybe 25 cents.
So so it's meaningful. It's not It
doesn't bail them out. It's not a
game-changer, but it is meaningful.
Meanwhile, when you take a step back,
what have we learned so far? Not just
from Delta, which reported earnings, but
we've heard a number of commentaries
from other airlines as well a couple
weeks earlier at JP Morgan conference in
Washington, D.C. Demand still very
strong heading into this period despite
the issues with TSA, despite higher
prices. What do you make of where that's
coming from? Is it disproportionately
the premium? Is it disproportionately
coming from business travelers?
I I think it's all of it. I I think all
of those folks, whether they're
traveling for work or traveling in their
personal life, I I think it's consumers
that are still flush with cash. I think,
you know,
sentiment might be weak, and there's a
lot of horrible headlines in the news
every day, but travel demand has proven
to be so resilient this whole decade,
and I think that's a huge part of it.
>> There also has been a sense that the
biggest are the best suited to manage
through crisis after crisis. We saw that
during the pandemic. Then we have
questions around mergers considering the
fact that some of the merger attempts
that have happened in the past have not
gone through antitrust. How much do you
expect those to be revisited given that
the biggest survive and thrive, and the
smaller players are really struggling?
It's certainly on the table. You know, I
mean, there's been so many rumors that
Delta hinted at it yesterday or talked
about this context cuz everyone can see
the writing on the wall, and everyone
can see the setup.
You know, it's anyone's guess when it
when it actually happens, but just given
all the, you know, economics 101 and
what's happening in the industry, you
would think that the the weaker players
would start to consolidate. Is that also
because there's a different regulatory
environment in Washington now?
Oh, absolutely. I think there's
push-pull factors.
So so who could be right for potential
consolidation right now?
Well, ironically, we were out on the
road with JetBlue when the Summerford
article came out. We wrote about that
the the other week. So I mean, who they
unsubstantiated, but you know, they've
been kind of top of mind of of of the
larger airlines, one who could who could
be in play. Tom Fitzgerald of TD Cowen,
thank you so much for being with us this
morning. Looking ahead to the kickoff of
earnings next week, although we should
say the kickoff for earnings is actually
this week considering the fact that
Delta really does sort of sound the
clarion alarm or potentially the
optimistic tone for the rest of earning
season.
>> optimistic. And you've talked about this
for months, how Delta has their own
refinery. So when everyone's freaking
out about jet fuel, and they should be.
Jet fuel prices are sky-high right now.
But they have their own refinery. Wall
Street Journal this morning saying that
this is Delta's ace in the hole for
these surging fuel costs. Yeah, giving
them about hundreds of millions of
dollars in offset to potentially these
increasing costs. Those increase of
costs going directly into how much
prices have increased. The latest PCE
data and jobless claims set to cross in
just a few moments. Bloomberg's Mike
McKee joins us now with what to watch.
Mike, a key question, how much of the
data is going to reflect the post-war
period of higher oil prices?
Unfortunately, not very much, Lisa.
Really, only the jobless claims numbers
are going to be relevant from a time
period point of view. We get a third
look at the fourth-quarter GDP, which
isn't going to change very much and not
tell us anything about where we are now.
And then the PCE numbers, important to
the Fed, but this is February data. And
the war started on March 1st. So
we're really looking ahead to tomorrow
to the CPI report, which should reflect
a lot of the war as gasoline prices are
going to help push this up to the
highest since 2022.
There is a feeling though, Mike, and Bob
Michael of JP Morgan was reflecting
this, that so far heading into the war,
it seems like economic momentum was
actually better than most people
expected. And it sort of points to the
idea that people can absorb price
increases and frankly absorb some sort
of cannibalization of their spending
power. Is that your sense as well?
It is essentially the case that
the Fed and others are following at this
point the idea that we were a little bit
stronger. But remember, fourth-quarter
GDP was revised down to just 7/10, and
that's not expected to change. And then
right now, the Atlanta Fed's GDP now
number for the first quarter is 1.3%. So
we're looking at economy that has done
okay, but slowed. It's the one part that
is working well, the consumer, Yeah.
that everybody's got their eye on. If
consumers start to cut back because of
higher gas prices, then you've got much
more of a problem. Michael McKee, thank
you so much, as always, for that
insight. We are just minutes away from
core PCE as well as personal and income
and personal spending and income. What
we're expecting is for the core PCE
index to come in at 3% year-over-year.
Remember, this is the key target that
the Fed looks at. They're expecting a 2%
or they want to get down to 2% coming
into this period, already far above
that, which is part of the issue that
people have about to Bob's Michael to
Bob Michael's point, is 2% just a myth?
Well, it has been, right? Because
they've been cutting rates for the past
few years when inflation has been well
above 2%. Everyone's been talking about
2 3% the new 2%, but Michael said
actually he thinks it's more like 2.5%.
Maybe for a dynamic economy where the
United States is now, maybe 2.5% [music]
actually is more acceptable. The
strength in the economy, part of the
reason you've seen strength in the
equity markets resilience today, just a
touch of [music] risk off, but otherwise
people hanging in there looking for some
sort of sense of when the ceasefire can
actually be called that. Coming up a
fresh round of inflation and jobs data
set to cross. Joining us next, Nela
Richardson [music] of ADP.
Just seconds until the key economic
data, [music] the beginning of the
one-two punch with core PCE coming and
jobless claims before we get CPI
tomorrow. The way that it's late
stacking up in markets, a bit of a
risk-off tone with a real questions
about the durability of the ceasefire,
down about a quarter of a percent for
the S&P, down [music] 6/10 of a percent
for the Russell. Bonds pretty quiet this
morning. We are going to get an auction
of 30-year notes later today. A bit of a
bid, a little bit of a softening in some
of the concerns around inflation. Right
now, we are on the precipice of getting
that data with questions around oil
prices still rising [music]
on the expectation that there is some
concern over the ceasefire. The latest
data crossing just now, Michael McKee,
what do you got?
Well, it's important data for the Fed,
but it is backward-looking February data
in terms of spending, incomes, and
prices. The PCE price index for February
comes in up 4/10, which is as expected,
but that's a rise from the prior month,
3/10. Doesn't change the year-over-year
number to 2.8%. Core PCE up 4/10 as
forecast, same as last month. So, we
actually see the core PCE year-over-year
number fall to 3% from 3.1%
as base effects affect that. The jobless
claims numbers that everybody's keeping
an eye on, 219,000,
a big jump up from 203,000
the week before, but not one that would
tell you that the economy is really
slowing down and companies are starting
to let people go. Continuing claims,
1,794,000
fall from 1,832.
As far as personal income, it fell a
tenth of a percent. We're going to have
to check the data on that and see which
categories fell. Personal spending
though,
a little bit stronger than last month,
less than expected, comes in up half a
percent on the month. It was 4/10 last
month. The economists had thought we
might get a 6/10 gain. And then finally,
GDP
actually significantly weaker than it
was in the first and second readings.
This is for the fourth quarter, just
half a percent as personal consumption
falls to 1.9% from 2%. We were talking
before the break, guys, about the
consumer hanging in there and the
economy strong going into the war. It
may not be the really accurate story.
Let me dive into some of this and I'll
be back with you in a minute. Thank you
so much, Mike. Yeah, a lot of question
marks hanging over this. In particular,
personal income dropping 0.1% versus the
expected 0.3%. And that question about
GDP growth, a real key question mark as
well, especially given the retail sales
data that also portrayed a less
optimistic backdrop. What you're seeing
in markets is a pretty muted response,
and not really that significant. S&P
futures
inflecting just a touch lower on the
heels of this. You are seeing a little
bit of a bid into bonds, but really this
is not exactly a market-moving event.
And really, the takeaway to me is what
can we glean from data that truly is
ancient history. Image, that feels like
to me the takeaway increasingly. Because
everyone's focused on the geopolitics
right now, and what does this mean for
potentially higher oil prices for
longer, which is why this backward data
doesn't really matter right now. The one
thing I think that it all is interesting
is initial jobless claims ticking
higher, because that is this real-time
data right now. When you talk about and
look at the Fed minutes that you see
individuals talk about this dual risk,
maybe when you see PCE in line at the
moment, do you start to get a little
more concerned about what's going on in
the job market?
>> 219,000 might not get it done, but
still, I get your point. How much you're
going to get a real-time indicator from
these initial jobless claims. Joining us
now, I'm so pleased to say Nela
Richardson of ADP. Nela, great to see
you. Thank you for being here.
>> Great to be here. Thank you. So, when
you take a look at numbers like this,
just before we get into what you're
seeing out there, how instructive are
they given how dated some of this
information really is?
>> It's hard to pull a current signal from
the data that we've seen, but I think
it's meaningful that fourth-quarter GDP
growth was lower than we thought. And
this is before the the ramp-up in oil
prices. So, I'm curious to see what the
consumer spending numbers look like, how
much of a drag spending was. Maybe it
wasn't a drag, we'll see. Michael come
back with the with the news on that. But
if consumers were already vulnerable and
fragile in the fourth quarter, then that
makes the recent spike in oil prices
even more relevant in terms of whether
the consumer is going to hang in there
through the duration. What are you
seeing on the ground when it comes to
the hiring backdrop? And we're seeing a
slight tick up in initial jobless
claims, mixed messaging about might not
be a huge firing moment, but it's very
difficult to get a job. Are you seeing
improvement or deterioration?
>> We're actually seeing the fourth week of
strength. So, when we came out during
the jobs week and looking at that
reference week that includes the 12th of
the month, we put the private sector job
gains at at 62,000. Since that week,
we've actually seen a ramp-up in hiring.
We're looking at an average of about
26,000 jobs per week
in addition. So, the labor market hiring
seems to be strengthening, which is good
news at least for now going into what
could be a very uncertain period in the
geopolitics.
>> Is there a disconnect though to how
people feel? Cuz I know you recently
just did a corporate survey asking
people, how safe do you feel in your
job? And only one in four said they were
safe. That's right. That's globally. We
asked people, is your job safe from
elimination? And most people said no,
it's not. And that was the global
number. In the US, it was 28%. And
what's interesting about this report is
younger workers and older workers were
the most likely to say that their jobs
are not safe. Why? Because of the
vulnerability. You have the college new
college grads entering into a labor
market that is very different than what
they were prepared for. And there
there's a mismatch in expectations. And
then you have the older workers who are
looking at, you know, everything that's
going on, whether it's AI adoption or
that kind of uncertainty in geopolitics,
and they're saying, what's my future in
the last 10 years of my career? So,
there's uncertainty in the middle,
that's where there's more confidence,
but at the there's a barbell of
confidence by demographics.
>> There's also a barbell between sentiment
surveys where people are expressing
anxiety, and then people on Wall Street
who express bullishness and the optimism
not just on markets, but that that
person is going to keep spending money.
I mean, how do you identify this
disconnect? Does it matter if people
feel insecure in their job given the
fact that the jobs market isn't
terrible, it's not great, but it's not
so bad?
>> Ground truth matters. The workers are at
the heart of what's going on in their
occupations, in their own firms. So,
they have a sense of perspective. They
know when there's a hiring pause. They
know when there's an acceleration. They
know what their colleagues in their
network are seeing in terms of jobs. So,
that ground truth, that is incorporated
into their sentiment along with these
other macro features that everybody else
is watching. So, I take it seriously,
but I hold it against that hard data
showing improvement in hiring. And I
think how you like mesh these two worlds
is that the hiring is so fragmented.
It's so concentrated in healthcare. So,
if you're in a different industry, you
are not seeing what the national numbers
are seeing, because this is a very
fragmented hiring schematic we're we're
in. The national numbers just came out.
Personal income declined by 0.1%.
Personal spending increased by 0.5%.
Core PCE bang in line with that 3%
year-over-year increase. Initial jobless
claims came in just a touch higher.
Michael McKee, you've been parsing
through the data to answer some
questions. What have you learned?
Well, let's look at personal income
first. It's not a pretty picture, even
though it's not a terrible one. Wages
and salaries increased only by 2/10 of a
percent during the month of February. In
January, they were up by half a percent.
That can be a volatile thing, and of
course, January's when a lot of people
get raises, but it does suggest people
had a little bit less
disposable income to spend as disposable
income falls a tenth of a percent. The
savings rate also falls to 4% from 4.5%.
So, what consumer spending they we did
get, a lot of it probably came out of
the savings accounts of people. And then
when we look at the GDP numbers, I know
that
we're interested in why this happened.
Of course, consumer spending was down on
the month by one not down from the third
quarter. It was rose only 1.9%
business spending is the big reason that
we saw
lower GDP numbers though fixed
investment up just 1 and 1/2%.
Non-residential fixed just 2.4%
and that's the category that represents
what businesses are doing. So
overall not a pretty picture here in
terms of where the economy was at least
where we thought it was and where these
numbers are telling us it actually was
when we went into the war on March 1st.
Mike, thanks so much. That's really
helpful and it gives us some insight
into what exactly we're looking at.
That's Michael McKee, our Bloomberg
economics correspondent. A key question
here Nela with respect to business
investment during times of uncertainty.
Given the fact that it was tariffs, now
there's the uncertainty over the price
of oil, over the geopolitical conflict.
How much do you expect companies to pull
back on hiring plans that otherwise
would have been implemented based on the
ongoing uncertainty? I think you're
going to see a stop and start in terms
of hiring. I think that is reflected in
the volatility we've even seen in the
first 3 months of the year. When there
is a clear path, when there is a certain
future, I think you'll see especially
small firms move ahead and in fact
that's where we're seeing a lot of the
juice in the ADP report. It's from small
firms. And those small firms may not be
able to wait for the right moment to
hire. They their revenue is based on how
many people they have actually working.
Large firms have more discretion. So
again, I think you'll see this
bifurcation by establishment size, by
industry. Some industries like health
care are not all that vulnerable to
what's going on because the demographics
are pushing the hiring not the market,
you know, infrastructure that's pushing
the hiring in some other industries.
>> Well, what if the conflict is more
protracted though?
You just wait? How long How long can you
wait for?
>> You can't wait for forever. That's
right. Businesses need to go on. They
need to serve their clients. They don't
want to lose clients as they're waiting
in indecision and they don't want to
lose the momentum in that whatever
investments they're making and we know
that companies have been making a lot of
investments in AI. You don't want to sit
on those. You have to move forward with
those. And so there is this wait and see
approach. There's probably going to be
more sporadic hiring. In my mind, the
bottom line is more volatility in the
hiring that we're seeing that every
month is a live month that's going to be
harder to predict.
>> we have this fresh data dissecting even
though it's backwards looking. Is the
most important data basically just
tanker trackers and seeing how many
ships are moving every single day
through the straight or lack thereof? I
think that will give us some certainty
in terms of maybe oil prices or the
movements of goods and services, but I I
would suggest that
the hiring market is very different. It
is concentrated and I've said this
before in services and in health care
and not immune to the macro picture, but
driven by different triggers in terms of
where the jobs are coming online. And so
what's going on in the Middle East is
not necessarily affecting the demand for
home health care aids in Iowa and that's
where we're seeing actually the surge in
growth. Not necessarily in Iowa, but in
this older demographics wanting to age
in place and that is really reshaping
the labor market in real time right now.
>> Yeah, unfortunately people are getting
older and sicker and so someone's got to
take care of them. Nela Richardson of
ADP is going to be sticking with us
through the rest of the hour right now.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomberg brief with Yahaira and
Yahaira. Hi Lisa, recapping that data we
just got the Fed's preferred inflation
gauge core PCE coming in line with
estimates for February notably before
the impacts of [music] the war hit the
economy. Personal income falling below
expectations at just a tenth of a
percent with personal spending also
missing. And in the labor market,
initial jobless claims picking up last
week to 219,000. [music]
And speaking of job cuts, Disney's
planning to eliminate as many as 1,000
positions in the coming weeks. The Wall
Street Journal reporting many of the
cuts will be in the company's recently
consolidated marketing department.
Disney has laid off more than 8,000
people since 2022 as part of a major
restructuring.
And in sports, the Masters is underway
at Augusta National in Georgia with the
first round teeing off in just the last
hour. Quite early. [music] It's the
first time since 1994 that both Tiger
Woods and Phil Mickelson will miss the
tournament. Rory McIlroy is vying for
his second straight green jacket and
world number one Scotty Scheffler will
be hoping to take [music] home his
third. That's your Bloomberg brief,
Lisa. Thank you so much, Yahaira. And if
you're wondering why John is not here
this week,
maybe put two and two together. As
Yahaira was speaking, I was like, oh,
this makes perfect sense. This is why
Farro is out this week, clearly. Anyway,
I hope you're enjoying the tee off. Up
next, Michelle Weaver of Morgan Stanley
saying the market continues to look very
healthy plus Danny Burger with your
morning movers. Meta and CoreWeave
rising after striking a new AI deal. The
deals keep getting done despite concerns
about geopolitics. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
We can live with oil $100 a barrel for a
while. I think what the administration
has done a good job of doing to us
[music] over the last year plus is to
train us and we look for signs of when
[music] is the rhetoric at a high, but
they're starting to look for an exit.
And we're starting to see that now and I
think that's why [music] the markets are
so optimistic. That was Bob Michael of
JP Morgan Asset Management with a tone
of optimism despite some of the
negativity that you're seeing in the
price action. Futures lower after
yesterday having a pretty significant
rally, the biggest of the month on the
heels of a ceasefire agreement. Real
questions today about [music] how long
the ceasefire can remain in place. Down
3/10 of a percent for S&P futures. A bit
of a bid into bonds although ultimately
going nowhere. 3.78%
>> [music]
>> after getting core PCE that was bang in
line with where we had expected it to
be. The dollar softening just a touch
[music] and Brent crude higher by 4%
$98.68.
Less than an hour away from the cash
open. Here are your morning movers with
Danny Burger. Danny. [music] Hey Lisa,
some big tech movers this morning over a
deal. CoreWeave and Meta. Meta investing
$21 billion into CoreWeave [music] on
top of an already $14 billion. It's
about AI data center capability
expanding that out. This deal will run
from 2027 through to 2032.
Meta's already investing in its own, but
it needs more capacity than just what
itself can do.
>> [music]
>> Hence this partnership with CoreWeave.
Also a little bit of sell-side action to
go through this morning. Bernstein
upgrading [music]
SanDisk to a street high of $1,250.
In fact, they say that the [music] blue
sky scenario could be $3,000.
You can see he's trading at 810 right
now, but it is up 3 and 3/4 of a
percent. [music] They're just pointing
to the high cost of memory and a market
that keeps underestimating just how
robust [music] their earning cycle is
going to be. We also had another upgrade
to a tech company, Marvell, another chip
company. This upgrade comes from
Barclays from neutral [music] to
overweight. They say that this should be
treated as an optical company and
there's a huge amount of growth, 90%
[music]
that they could see from here even as
some of the market share gets given to
Broadcom. Those shares up 4.3% in the
premarket, Lisa. Thank you so much,
Danny. Counting down to the opening
bell. Here's a trading diary for the
rest of the week and into the next.
Friday we get today tomorrow CPI and
University of Michigan sentiment survey.
Ultimately, we all feel like this week
has been a year and this year has been a
decade.
>> Almost there. Of course. On Saturday, we
get the US and Iran holding peace talks
in Pakistan. Monday, bank earnings
kicking off with Goldman Sachs. Tuesday,
[music]
results from JP Morgan, Wells Fargo and
City plus PPI. All of that giving a read
on exactly how the economy [music] is
maneuvering through this. And turning
back to our top story, stocks falling
over with optimism over the ceasefire
fading. Michelle Weaver of Morgan
Stanley writing, "Putting aside recent
geopolitically driven price action, the
market continues to look very healthy on
a fundamental basis." Michelle joins us
now for more. Michelle, you are not
alone and good morning. A lot of people
are saying as long as this remedies
itself on some level or creates some new
stability, it's time to go all in in a
real way. Is that your sense as well? I
think the fundamentals absolutely have
to remain your North Star and while
we've been whipped around in the price
action, whether it was from AI
disruption or the war in Iran, the
fundamentals have still remained very
healthy. We're at 12% year-over-year
growth going into the first quarter.
We've seen earnings revisions move
higher throughout the year despite those
concerns I just mentioned. So on a
fundamental basis, we are still in a
very good place. How much is a
year-over-year increase in earnings per
share kind of in the tailwinds of a
dollar that has been kind of weakening
earlier this week this year and giving a
really good comp for a lot of these
companies and perhaps I don't want to
say artificially inflated, but something
that isn't sustainable for the remainder
of the year. That's one benefit, but I
think you have to look at where we are
in the cycle. So if we zoom out, we were
in an earnings recession up until the
middle of last year. The average company
in the Russell 3000 was seeing negative
year-over-year earnings growth. That
changed in the middle of last year. We
are now in an environment where earnings
is positive and accelerating higher. So
even, you know, with some of those moves
that you just cited, I don't think that
that's the underlying story. It's a
broad recovery in earnings. The way you
talk, it sounds like the market and you
think it should basically just look
through what's happening in terms of
geopolitical sphere. But at some point,
does it become more systemic and you
have to rethink some of these corporate
earnings? I wouldn't say we're just
looking through it. We've seen a lot of
damage already happening. So what
partially what I'm saying is we've
already de-risked. We're in a good
fundamental place, but we've also
de-risked. The multiple on the S&P is
down around 18% from the highs last
fall. If we look at what's been going on
in the Russell 3000, more than half of
members are down more than 20% from
their 52-week highs. So we've seen a lot
of that de-risking already happening
combined with a good earnings picture.
>> Have you seen the same with the
consumer? So the consumer is in a pretty
precarious place right now. Um, we're
seeing, you know, things on the positive
side, things on the negative side. Of
course, gasoline is weighing heavily on
consumer household budgets. We did see
higher than typical tax refunds this
year. We're seeing spending still hold
up, but people are absolutely nervous
and they're very sensitive to anything
impacting their budgets. Nela, you've
been talking with a lot of companies,
large companies, about what their
confidence level is, what their
conviction, what their hiring plans look
like. Do you see the same optimism from
them that Michelle is talking about,
that we're seeing in earnings
expectations and earnings more broadly?
I see a little frustration, actually.
These are companies that want to grow
and they're little flummoxed right now
for two reasons. One, it's the macro
uncertainty that's putting not not
necessarily their own operations, but
their customer operations on hold, but
also it's the change in sentiment when
it comes to the worker. So, clear
example, I talked to a manufacturer who
couldn't find workers, early career, to
do 12-hour shifts.
It's a difference in what the worker
expectations are on jobs, being in the
office, being out of the office, what
kind of salary growth. We've been
spoiled by the you post-pandemic
comp competition for workers and they're
not getting the same terms for these new
jobs. So, I think there's a mix mis-
it's a mixed bag. They see growth, they
see opportunity, but they're flummoxed
by the macro headwinds and the change in
the worker sentiment.
>> Michelle, how much do you see that in
terms of which areas in the equity
markets are set to outperform? Sort of
really coming from the industrial
sectors, the materials,
some of the commodity linked spaces,
much more so than over the past say two
decades.
>> Mhm. Yeah, so right now we're
recommending bar belling on the cyclical
side, industrials, and and financials
along with high quality growers, the
hyperscalers. You have a really rare
opportunity right now. The hyperscalers
are trading at less than the fifth
percentile on valuation since 2023. It's
a very good way to get high quality
exposure to the AI trade at a good value
right now. You do have an interesting
point in your note though about data
center construction. Similar to what Dan
Greenhouse was saying, the political
pushback on this. Yes. How how
challenging is that going to be for the
hyperscalers? It's It is a big challenge
right now. We're seeing that be one of
the primary constraints for data center
construction and I think part of this is
going back to the conversation on the
consumer. People are very price
sensitive and there's this perception
that data center construction is pushing
power bills higher. It's a nuanced issue
and it really depends on if you're
living in a state with regulated or
unregulated utilities, but this is still
a big issue for voters. It's becoming a
big issue for politicians and it's
something I would watch into the
midterms as a big risk. Michelle Weaver
of Morgan Stanley, thank you so much for
being with us as we await new headlines
to direct the day ahead. Nela Richardson
of ADP, what are you looking for
tomorrow heading into CPI that might
give us a better real-time look of
exactly how higher prices are trickling
into consumer bills? Well, obviously I'm
looking at oil prices and energy prices
and I want to know whether that's going
to feed through goods. I want to look at
food prices, both in home food prices
and food away prices, because that's
going to hit. When you think about this
K-shaped economy, you can't afford avoid
food and energy and they impact on the
consumer budget. Now, usually economists
look through those things, we dismiss
them, we look at core, but I think all
of the action is in the headline because
that's where you're going to see the
spikes in energy and whether that's
going to
flow through to the other parts of the
index.
>> Yeah, in the meantime, we're also
looking to all of the headlines and
whether we do get some sort of
resolution, the latest raising real
questions about what the ceasefire
actually looks like. I think a lot of
people are questioning the credibility,
clarity of the ceasefire, but also Iran
really doubling down today that Lebanon
needs to be included in the ceasefire
and I think that's a huge stumbling
blocks ahead of these Islamabad talks on
Saturday. Yeah, a lot of pieces coming
together. Nela Richardson of ADP, thank
you so much for being with us this
morning and for the second part of our
show. Coming up tomorrow, we've got
Michael Purvis of Tallback and Capital,
Krishna Guha of Evercore ISI, Bob
McNally of Rapidan Energy, and Abby
Joseph of JP Morgan Private Bank with
the risk on yesterday turning just a
little sour this morning as people
question the validity of this ceasefire.
Equity futures just off a touch with
energy prices surging by more than 3%.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
>> [music]